In this video, we're shining the spotlight on the greatest chess player ever, Gary Kasparov, with five fantastic games in one of his favorite openings, the Scotch game. The first opponent, Yan Teimman, aka the best of the West, meets Kasparov's E4 with E5. White continues knight F3 attacking the pawn, which black defends with knight C6. Then Kasparov plays D4, the Scotch game. In using the Scotch, white aims to dominate the center by exchanging his D pawn for black's E pawn. so that white would have the only remaining central pawn. There isn't a great way for black to maintain the tension in this position. So, he like most others captures the pawn and white recaptures, centralizing his knight. Black's knight f3 attacks white's pawn, but white doesn't defend it. instead capturing the knight to not only damage his pawn structure once he recaptures, but to also remove the defense of the E5 square so that he can push his pawn there, hitting the other knight. Instead of black running the knight away, he lifts his queen to E7, pinning the pawn to the king. Kasparald moves his queen to E7, defending his pawn while breaking the pin. So, the black knight, who is now threatened for real, jumps out of danger to D5. White hits it again with C4 and it backs up to B6 before White develops his knight to C3. Black lifts his queen to E6, building pressure on white's pawn while making way for his bishop to develop. White also moves his queen, opening his bishop's lane, and black brings his bishop out to B4, pinning the white knight to its king. White quickly breaks the pin with bishop D2, and black plays bishop A6, adding a third attacker to white's C pawn. With the knight now defended, however, white can afford to play B3 on defending his knight to defend the pawn. Black decides to capture the knight, loosening white's defense of D5. And after white recaptures, black strikes with D5. Kasparov avoids capturing since it would allow black to undouble his pawns and he instead dodges his queen to H4. Black is able to temporarily win a pawn by taking on C4, but that pawn becomes pinned to his bishop, so it isn't going anywhere. White patiently develops his bishop, preparing to castle. Now, if black tries to hang on to his pawn, white will slowly work to win it back with moves like rook to C1 and bishop A1. So, black improves his position instead with knight D5, centralizing the knight with an attack on white's bishop. This does loosen the pawn which white takes with the bishop pinning the knight to its queen and not letting black take the white bishop on c3. Were black to take the bishop that's doing the pinning then white would recapture with his queen defending his other bishop. So black sneakily plays g5 trying to deflect the queen away from the bishop's defense. Kasparov moves his queen to d4 keeping an eye on his bishop. Black chops it off the board next and white recaptures with his queen before black makes use of his g pawn to hop his knight to f4 pressuring white's king side. The queens are now staring at one another and white initiates the exchange. Black not wanting another pawn island recaptures with his knight and white castles queen side to simultaneously connect his rooks and centralize one of them. Black lifts his king to E7, also connecting his rooks, and white activates his other one. Black's rook H to D8, offers an exchange, and white takes it. After black recaptures, white lifts his rook to E4, preparing to slide it over and attack black's weak queen side pawns. Black, in similar fashion, lifts his rook, increasing its options. As we enter the end game, Kasparov advances his king towards the center and black plays C5, gaining central space. After white moves his rook over to A4, attacking the A pawn, black jumps his knight to D4, giving check. This also cuts off the white bishop's defense of the E5 pawn, hence threatening to take it. White grabs the knight and black recaptures with his pawn, undoubling them. White grabs the A pawn with an attack on the C pawn. And black, not wanting to lose a second pawn, guards it with his king. Black's about to win the pawn on E5, and white, who does not have a way to defend it, lifts his king to D3, blockading black's advanced pawn. Black grabs the pawn, equalizing material. But white's outside passed pawn might be slightly more difficult to defend. Now, were white to grab the D pawn, his king would let go of defense of E2, allowing the black rook to jump there, winning at the very least a pawn while being able to get behind white's a pawn were it to ever move. Going back, Kasparov, who knows this, shrewdly drops his rook to A4, attacking black's pawn a different way. Black guards it with C5, and white undermines its defense with B4. Now, black's best bet is to take the pawn, which white would recapture and shortly after win black's indefensible D pawn, but black doesn't want to go down a pawn, instead advancing his king to E6. White was already in the driver's seat, but now he is able to speed ahead with the move rook A6 check. The reason this move is so powerful is because white realizes that were he to exchange the rooks, then he'd be able to march his a pawn down the board with little resistance. Black's king, who's in check, doesn't really have any good options. going forward behind the pawn would allow white to pin the pawn to the king before capturing it, leading to either white winning a second pawn on G5 or exchanging the rooks with the result of an almighty passed a pawn. going back. The other option of going backwards has pretty much the same result with rook A5 and the rooks would be exchanged again, giving white the powerful a pawn. Back to the game. Instead of both of these options, black marches his king forward to f5 and Kasparov pushes his pawn to B5. One step closer to promotion. Black defends his D pawn with rook D5, allowing his C pawn to move. And white gets behind it with his rook. Black plays C4 check, trying to set a trap for white, but Kasparov with perfect precision takes the pawn with his king while attacking the black rook. Black pushes his pawn a square, leaving his rook free to capture, and white takes it. The pawn steps another square and you might think, "Oh no, the pawn's going to queen next move and there's nothing white can do about it." Yet Kasparov saw all of this a few moves ago and knows the one and only move that wins the game in this position. Can you find white's winning move? The only way white can stop the pawn is with his rook, but there's no way to immediately get behind the pawn. Kasparov instead finds a way to lure the black king onto the fourth rank. And the move he plays to do that is G4 check. After seeing this move and the inevitable end to the game, black resigns with the white rook covering the retreat. The black king could either step forward or take the pawn. Either way, white would follow with rook C4 check and then rook D4 getting behind the pawn. Black might be able to promote the pawn anyway with his king's help, but white can just give up his rook for the pawn before queening his B pawn with a decisive advantage. The next opponent is Super Grandmaster Michael Adams, and this game is very similar to the last one. The pawn is captured and Kasparov recaptures with his knight. Black attacks white's e4 with knight f6 and white captures black's knight. Black recaptures with the pawn and white pushes e5 hitting the knight. Black's queen e7 pins it to the king and queen e2 breaks the pin. The knight moves to d5 and white plays c4 to push it back to b6. The white knight is developed to c3 and black lifts his queen to e6 allowing his bishop to develop. White does similar with queen to E4. And after black pins the knight with bishop B4, white breaks the pin with his bishop. Black's bishop to A6 attacking C4 is met by B3 defending before black captures the knight and white recaptures. Black pushes D5 and white not wanting to undouble black's pawns, swings his queen over to H4. Black takes the pawn on C4, but now it's pinned to his bishop. So, white patiently develops his bishop to E2 and black centralizes his knight on d5 to save his bishop that's under attack. Last game, Kasparov captured the pawn on C4 to pin the knight to the queen, but this time he switches things up. He moves his bishop that's under attack to D4. Black's C5 tries to deflect it away from both the defense of the pawn and the C3 square. And white doesn't have a way to keep the bishop on the diagonal because bishop to B2 would just be met by C3. So white takes the pawn. Black jumps his knight to C3, hitting white's bishop and white dodges by capturing the pawn on C4. Black takes white's E5 with the queen who forks both the bishop and the king, but white can block the check with his bishop to save it. Then black moves his knight to E4, opening a discovered attack on white's rook in the corner. White castles, connecting his rooks, and this whole time the bishops were staring at each other. So black finally captures. After white recaptures with the pawn, black castles his king to safety. Kasparov centralizes his rook, indirectly seeing the enemy queen, and black activates his rook from F to E8 as well. Black's F3 kicks the knight, removing one piece from between the white rook and the black queen, and white moves his bishop, taking away the other one. Now, both sides weaknesses are on the queen side. So, it would be a good idea for black to move his queen there to B2, for example. Instead, black sidesteps her to F5, and things begin to shift in white's favor. He starts with C5, hitting the knight while cutting off the black queen's path towards the queen side. After black jumps his knight to B5, white plays queen B4, hitting it again. Black defends with queen to D3, but white's rook E to D1, tries to deflect her away. Black counters with A5, hitting white's queen, and white sideeps to A4. Black moves his queen to E2, and white continues to harass her with rook back to E1. Now, black's best choice is the clever move knight to C3, where it's out of danger, attacks the white queen, and stops the white rook from going to the D1 square so that black can safely put his queen on the D file. Instead of this, black moves his queen back to D3, thinking that white might go back and forth to get a draw. But a draw is the last thing on Kasparov's mind as he sees a way to win the game. Can you find white's winning idea? The black queen must defend her knight. And for now, she's been doing that from the D3 square and the E2 square. If we go back a move, we notice that the white rook is skewing the black queen and rook, but black's rook is defended. Kasparov sees a way to recreate this same position from a move ago where black's rook is no longer defended. And the move he plays to achieve this is rook takes E8 check. This forces a recapture by black after which white can play rook to D1. Black seeing what's going to happen next with no good way out resigns the game. If the queen moves anywhere away to safety, then white's just going to take the knight with a decisive material advantage. Otherwise, the queen could go to E2, but white would play rook to E1 with the skewer we talked about earlier. Black's best bet here would be to take the rook, eventually getting a rook and knight for the queen, which is better for white. The game could go on, but white would be able to win another pawn. And this is more than enough for Kasparov to convert this game. The third opponent is Grandmaster Arthur Yusupov. And after he captures the Scotch pawn and white recaptures with the knight, black attacks the knight with bishop to C5. Kasparov snatches the knight on C6, but black inserts queen to F6, threatening a checkmate on F2. White defends it with queen to D2 before black recaptures the knight with his D pawn, which despite damaging the pawn structure, opens his bishop up for development. After white brings his knight out to C3, black puts his bishop on E6. White's knight to A4 attacks the black dark squared bishop and again black plays an intermetzo rook to D8 hitting the white queen. White blocks the attack with his bishop while paving the lane for castling. And black moves his bishop to D4 where it's centralized. Now, white wants to play C3 to kick the bishop, but black would have the clever sacrifice of bishop takes F2, deflecting the queen away from the defense of his bishop, who would then be captured by the black rook. going back. In light of this, white first castles his king to safety, which defends the F pawn with his rook. And in anticipation of white's C3, black plays A6, giving his bishop a retreat where it cannot be captured. Kasparov advances his queen to A5, pressuring some weak black queenside pawns. And black boldly boosts his pawn to B5, hitting white's knight, who drops to C3. This leaves two pawns under attack and black doesn't have a way to save both. He drops his bishop to B6 defending one of them and white takes the other one on A6. White just won a pawn, but black can claim that white's queen is out of the action. Black develops his knight to H6 with ideas to build an attack on the king's side while opening the lane for a castle on that side of the board. White follows with bishop to E3, adding an attacker to black's bishop who can't move without losing the pawn on C6 with check. Black's only way to not lose another pawn is bishop to C8, which he plays to kick the white queen away to A3, where she cuts off the black king's path to castling. Then black captures the bishop giving white double isolated pawns but a semi-open file for his rook who attacks the black queen and she moves out of danger to e5 where were the black knight to reach g4 there would be a mate threat on h2. Kasparov plays bishop to e2 defending against black's threat before he can even make it planning to chop the knight were it to land on g4. Black wanting to castle lifts his rook to D6, interfering with the white queen's vision along the diagonal and also opening the opportunity to swing the rook over in the future. White contests the open D file with rook A to D1. And after black castles, he captures black's rook, eliminating the possibility of any imminent attacks. Still, black is able to recapture with his pawn to undouble them before white slides his rook over to D1, piling up pressure on that pawn. Black's best way to defend it would be rook to D8. But he goes for C5 instead, threatening a fork with B4. What he overlooked was that this last move leaves the B pawn hanging and white quickly picks that up with his knight going up a second pawn. Black advances his bishop to G4 hoping for a capture so that he can recapture with his knight to activate it. Kasparov doesn't do his opponent any favors, moving his queen over to D3 to defend, but giving up the B pawn, which black grabs with his queen. White's okay with this though as the black queen moved from a strong central square to a weak square on the wing. White saves his past a pawn by pushing it a couple squares and black attacks it again with queen to B4. White moves his bishop to F3 so that his queen isn't tied down to its defense and black picks up the pawn on A4. White takes the D pawn with his knight staying up one pawn. Black moves his queen back to B4, maybe with some tricks in mind, but nothing works just yet. So, white plays H3, kicking black's bishop back to E6. Kasparov continues with E5, solidifying his knight's powerful post, and black uses the opened lane to swing his queen over to the king's side. White tries to exchange queens given that he's up material, but black drops his queen to E7. White's rook to B1 plans a threatening seventh rank rook infiltration and black counters with F5 hitting white's queen. White cannot take on pass because it would hang his knight. So he moves his queen to C6 attacking the indefensible C pawn and black cautiously shifts his king to the corner away from any threats along the diagonal. White grabs the pawn on C5 and black plays the devious rook to C8, making use of the pin on the knight to attack white's queen. Unfortunately for black, Kasparov is too savvy to be swindled as he sacrifices his queen for the rook. Black has no choice but to take it with his bishop. Now, here's a chance to put yourself in Kasparov's shoes and figure out the clever idea behind his queen sacrifice. Can you find white's winning move? White could take the bishop, but that would just result in a position where white has a rook and a bishop for black's queen, which would favor black. White has to see the major flaw in black's position here, which is his terribly weak back rank. And the move Kasparov plays to exploit this is rook to B8. Black has no good way out here despite being up material. White's going to take the bishop, forcing black to block the check with his knight before playing bishop to D5 to win a second piece. And black just can't do anything about it. Were black to play a move like G6 to give his king some air, white would take the bishop with check. And after black would dodge his king to G7, white would play the remarkable rook to C7, pinning the queen to the king. After black would take it, white would have knight E8, a royal fork to win back the queen, emerging up a bishop and two pawns. Back to the game, black plays knight G8, blocking the back rank ahead of time, which is probably his best try. Kasparov takes the bishop, pinning the knight to the king and bishop to D5 is on the horizon. Black tries queen to A7 attacking the E3 pawn whose capture would come with check and white avoids any tricks moving his king to H2. Now the black queen cannot go anywhere because she needs to defend against knight f7 which would be a smothered checkmate. So she goes to E7, threatening the pawn on E5 with a fork on the king and the knight. But white just plays rook to E8, attacking the queen while defending his E5 pawn, which impels black to resign the game. Black is toast because wherever his queen goes, white's going to play bishop to D5, which would win the knight. And this would already be a decisive material advantage, let alone the fact that white's certainly going to win a whole lot more soon with a devastating attack on black's king. The penultimate opponent is Grandmaster Yvon Sakalov. And after the pawns are exchanged in the center, black brings his knight out to F6, attacking E4. White takes the knight on C6 and black recaptures towards the center before white pushes E5 hitting the knight. Black pins the pawn to the king with queen to E7 and white breaking the pin with his queen is followed by knight to D5. White hits it again with C4 and unlike the first two games where black retreated the knight, black plays bishop A6, pinning the pawn to the white queen. White's queen can't really move because she's stuck defending two pawns. So, white plays G3, allowing his bishop to develop in the other direction. And black in a somewhat similar situation does the same thing with G6. White follows with B3. So that after black plays bishop to G7, adding an attacker to white's E5 pawn, white can play bishop to B2 defending. And then black castles. Kasparov develops his bishop to G2. And after black centralizes his rook on E8, white also castles his king to safety. Now, it looks like black can win a pawn here by taking on E5. And were he to do that, white would take back with his queen, getting it out of the black bishop's pin. Once all the exchanges would be complete, white would take the knight. This however would allow black to take the rook on f1 and the result would be white getting two pieces for black's rook and two pawns. The bishop and knight here is better than the rook, but black's two pawns make this a fairly equal position with chances for both sides. Back to the game. Instead of this, black drops his knight to B6, now threatening to take the pawn on E5 without any complications. So, Kasparov defends his pawn with rook to E1. White's E pawn is pinned by the black battery to white's queen. So, he pushes D5, which can't be captured so that he can pile up on white's other pinned pawn. White moves his queen getting out of the pin and black can't actually take on C4 because then the white bishop would take on C6 with a fork on the two black rooks. So black moves his queen to C5, not only defending his C pawn, but creating a new pin on white's C pawn to white's queen. White develops his knight to D2, supporting his C pawn. And black still can't take the pawn on C4 because white wouldn't take back but would play B4 trying to deflect the queen away from C6. Were she to be persistent and go to B5, white would play A4 and there would be no way for the white black queen to keep defending the pawn and white would take the pawn on C6 with the fork on the two rooks going back. Black instead moves his rook to from A to D8, giving white the time he needs to defend his pawn with rook A to C1 before black pushes his passed pawn ahead with D4. The black D pawn cuts off the white bishop's defense of E5. So Kasparov jumps his knight to F3, adding a defender, and black's pawn continues its march forward with D3, hitting the white queen, who shifts over in front of it to D2. Black drops his bishop to C8, looking to reroute it to G4 to undermine white's defense of E5. So, white plays H3, stopping the bishop from getting to G4, while black's H5 prevents white from pushing G4 so that he can safely put his bishop on F5 as an alternative. White adds pressure to black's pawn with rook C to D1, and black defends it with bishop to F5. Now, white sees a way to simplify the position here while getting rid of black's menacing pawn. He pushes e6, threatening to open up black king side, black's king side by taking on f7. So, black takes the pawn with his rook. White takes the rook. And while black could take back with the pawn, it would seriously weaken his king side, which white could exploit with moves like queen to g5, exchanging the bishops, and then playing g4. To avoid all of this, black just takes the rook with his bishop and white takes the bishop on G7. After black recaptures, his king becomes susceptible to a check by the white queen along the diagonal, which opens the white rook's direct attack onto the D pawn. Once the king moves, white wins back the pawn he sacrificed with his rook. Black takes the rook. White recaptures with his queen and black plays knight to D7, blocking the white queen's path to the back rank while rerouting the knight towards the center. Kasparov moves his queen to C3, making it more difficult for the black knight to re-enter the game and black puts his bishop on F5 where it has more scope. White's knight to D4, attacks the bishop, and puts two attackers onto the C6 pawn. Black moves his queen over to E5, pinning the knight to the queen, and white immediately gets out of it, moving his queen to D2. Black saves his C pawn, pushing it to attack the knight, who chomps down on black's bishop. White recaptures with his queen, defending his knight, who is under attack. And white moves his queen to A5, attacking all of black's incredibly weak queenside pawns. Still, white's queen is far from the action. And after black's knight to e5, white has to be careful not to lose to a black attack on the king's side. White wins the pawn on a7. And here, black's best move would be knight to d3, attacking f2 a second time. White would have a way to safely wiggle out, leading to a slightly better endame for him. But I don't want to spoil anything, so I won't show it. Instead of knight d3, however, black goes for h4, taking a different approach to getting at white's king. But this last move doesn't consider white's plan to consolidate his position. And now white has a way to get a decisive advantage in the endame. Can you find white's winning plan? Now, we already know that if white isn't careful here, then black can create good attacking chances. Just to illustrate, let's say white takes on C7. Black could take on G3. And after white would recapture, black would play queen to G5, threatening both the G pawn and the back rank. White could move his king to H2 to defend, but then black would play knight to G4 check. White would have to take it because otherwise black would be able to force a quick back rank checkmate. Going back after white would take the knight, his king side would be opened just enough for black to get a draw by perpetual check. Wherever the king tries to run to, the black queen would always have checks. And if the white king ever tries to run too far, then even worse, black would actually get a checkmate. Back to the game, white has a pawn advantage, but that doesn't mean anything if his king isn't safe. He needs to find a way to get his queen back into the action and as soon as possible. The move Kasparov plays to accomplish this is queen to A8 check. After black dodges the check, white rushes his queen back to e4 offering a queen exchange. And black must decline because otherwise he would have no way of stopping white's past a pawn. But then after black declines the exchange, white wins the pawn on h4 going up a second pawn and his queen is around to defend his safe and sound king side. White has a decisive material advantage, namely two pawns, and black doesn't have any more attacking chances. So, black decides to resign the game at this point. The final opponent is Grandmaster Wolf Gang Ununzer. And once the central pawns are exchanged, black moves his bishop to B4 with check. Kasparov blocks with C3 and the bishop drops to C5, adding an attacker to the knight. White slightly moves his bishop to E3, threatening to take the knight on C6 with an attack on the queen and a discovered attack on the bishop. So, black retreats the bishop to safety on B6. White's queen to G4 makes use of the bishop's absence to attack G7, and black replies with queen F6, defending the pawn while building up pressure on white's central knight. White drops the queen to G3 with eyes on C7, but this allows black to win a pawn by capturing on D4. White recaptures. Black takes again, leading to an exchange of bishops and the queen landing on D4 where it hits both the B2 and the E4 pawns. Kasparov defends them both in the only way possible, knight C3, blocking the queen's attack while defending the pawn. Even though black is up a pawn here, he is seriously lagging in development. And if he doesn't do something soon, white can get a big initiative. So he brings his knight to E7, preparing to castle, letting his C pawn go, which white takes. After black castles, white swings his rook over to D1, attacking the black queen, who runs to B4, counterattacking white's pawn. White lifts his rook defending and black moves his knight to G6 where it can eventually become more active. After white develops his bishop to E2, preparing to castle, black aggressively pushes F5 in order to weaken white's center and get an open semi-open file for his rook. This last move, however, slightly weakens his king side. And Kasparov, not being one to mess around with, starts taking advantage with bishop to C4. Check. The king moves over and the white knight hops to a dominant post on D5 where it attacks the enemy queen. She ducks to A4 and white takes the pawn on F5, luring the rook off the back rank once it recaptures. White castles to safety and black beginning to notice the frailty of his king position, asks for a queen exchange with queen to c6. This also hits the bishop, so white drops it to B3, allowing black to chop the queens off the board, which he does. White's knight recaptures, attacking the rook, who shifts to its only available square, B8. Kasparov shifts his rook a square where it unlocks its full potential along a bare E file. Thankfully for black, rook E8 can be blocked by his own rook with the help of his knight. On the other hand, black needs to figure out a way to develop his bishop and the D pawn cannot move without being captured. So black plays B6, opening another pathway for development. White follows with a slick move, knight to B5, which looks like it hangs the knight, but black's rook is stuck defending against the back rank, checkmate. So, it can't take the knight. Black develops his bishop to B7, believing he's solved all of his problems. But white has one move to gain a decisive advantage. Can you find white's best move? Now, two of black's pawns are hanging, but they are both poison. Knight takes A7 would lead to a trapped knight, and rook takes D7 would result in an unfortunate fork. Yet, white is able to exploit black's weak king. And the move Kasparrow plays to do this is knight to D6. This attacks the rook and the bishop, which if captured would require the other rook to leave the back rank to recapture. This means black's rook on the F file must stay on the F file to defend against a checkmate. And black drops that rook to F8. Then white plays knight to F7 check, forcing the king into discovered check territory. That king's not going anywhere and white remains patient, winning the pawn on D7. Black realizing he has no way out of the mess, resigns the game. White's threat is to win the full bishop with knight to d6, a discovered check. White is also threatening another crushing combination. Let's say black plays a random move. Then white would play knight e5 check pushing the king to the corner followed by taking the knight which would open the h file after which white would lift his rook to e3 with the intent of delivering a virtually unstoppable checkmate. Back to the game. Black's best possible move here would be bishop to c8 hitting the rook and guarding the diagonal. Kasparov would move his knight to d6 with check. And after the king would move over, he would play rook to F7, which would threaten to take the rook and then play rook to E8, pinning and winning the knight. Black can't take white's rook because white would get a checkmate starting with knight takes F7 and after the king would move, rook E8 check would force black to block the check and then the knight could move giving a discovered check and white would take the knight with checkmate. And going back, we can see that the black rook wouldn't have anywhere safe to go because wherever it go, white would drop his rook back to F3 and the rook has no safe squares on the back rank where it has to stay to defend against a checkmate. And in its current position, knight to f7 would be a fork. So, black would have to let white take the rook on the next move. Meaning, he has to move his bishop to connect the rooks to one another. The bishop could either go to G4 or A6, but the results would be very similar. Let's say it goes to A6. White would take the pawn on A7 attacking it. And then the bishop would be a goner. Its best choice would be good to go to D3 after which white would play knight to F7 check. And unless black would want to give up the full bishop by moving his king into another discovered check territory, black would have to give up the exchange for the knight, which would be a decisive material advantage for white. I hope these games were both entertaining and instructive. Use my link in the description to buy a chess.com membership.