' eS i 7 
— riginal fromm — 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

et er 

ree “LIBRARY OF 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PRESENTED BY 
THE ESTATE OF 

EUGENE B. COOK 
CLASS OF 1850 

Library of 

. ~ 
bm Viart 

I he I _ 
ih Vurmtine|— 

Princeton University. 

Presented hy 

Eugene B. Cook 

PRINCETON UNLV 

= a Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

I 
~ 

4 ‘ 
a a ee . Original from ’ 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY | 

« 
——_ 

Library 

GAMES 

LONDON INTERNATIONAL 
CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

1883. 

Epirep sy J. I. MINCHIN, 

With the assistance of the English Masters, ZcKeetort, StretNttz, 
Mason, and Brap. 

FIRST EDITION. 

LONDON : 
JAS. WADE, 18, TAVISTOCK STREET, 
COVENT GARDEN. 

3 , Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

His Rorat Hicuness 
THE DUKE OF ALBANY, K,G., 

THIS COLLECTION OF GAMES, 
PLAYED IN THE 
LONDON INTERNATIONAL CHESS TOURNAMENT, 1883, 
18, BY PERMISSION, 

DEDICATED. 

Original from 

OtedesPe = DRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

a" 

Digitized by Gcoogle 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PREFACE. 

_—- +> 

Wuew the Committee entrusted to me the task of publishing the 
Collected Games played in the International Chess Tournament of 
1883, I was determined that no labour should be wanting on my 
part to place the book in the hands of subscribers before the close 
of the year. Owing to the assistance which the funds at their dis- 
posal enabled the Committee to provide me with, the rapidity of 
execution, as well as the interest of the work, has been greatly 
increased, and for the first time in the annals of Chess Tournaments 
the Collected Games will be published within five months of the close 
of play, I trust in time to revive the interest in the struggle which 
a longer lapse of time would have necessarily effaced. 

It is needless for me to point out the greatly enhanced value 
given to this collection by the elaborate notes to their own games 
which the two first prize-winners, Messrs. Zukertort and Steinitz, 
have supplied. Both these masters have brought the art of Chess 
analysis to a perfection unknown before their time, and never have 
they exercised it more successfully than in this collection. It was a 
labour of loye with both of them to show that they stood as unrivalled 
in this branch of Chess as in their synthetical powers of combina- 
tion over the board. 

To those who may think that these masters of analysis are almost 
too exhaustive iu their treatment the notes by Messrs. Bird and 
Mason will give all that can be desired, and the reader will notice 
that I have in no way attempted to create homogeneity in the opinions 
put forth, but have left each master quite free to set forth his own 
views. The opinions of Mr. Bird on some points of Theory are well 
known to be heterodox, and the reader may be amused at finding 
such opposite yiews propounded within one volume as will meet him 
in this collection. I can only suggest to the young student that on 
all questions of Theory he will find Zukertort and Steinitz thoroughly 
safe guides, while if he attempt to put in practice some of Mr. Bird’s 
opinions he must be prepared for difficulties only to be surmounted 
by that master’s Chess genius and originality. 

nal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PREFACE, 

To all the above gentlemen my best obligations are due for their 
zealous co-operation and the determination which each of them has 
shown to make this Collection of Games worthy of the occasion. 

As regards the Games annotated by myself, the reader must 
acquit me of presumption in having performed a necessary duty. I 
need not say that I have made no attempt to imitate the great 
masters of analysis, and have contented myself with such remarks 
as would clear up possible difficulties for young players, and enable 
them to take appreciative interest in the recorded play. My best 
thanks are due to my friend Mr. Wayte not only for his valuable 
assistance in annotating Tchigorin’s Games, but throughout the 
preparation of this volume. There is no living amateur more 
thoroughly acquainted with the latest Theory of Chess, and his 
notes in this respect will be found of the highest value. 

I regret that the Collection of Games played in the Vizayana- 
garam Tournament is not more complete, but no official copy of the 
Games was recorded, and Iam chiefly indebted to the players who 
have been kind enough to supply me with specimens of their skill. 
A mass of incorrectly-recorded Games was handed over by some of 
the players to the Director of Play, and my best obligations are due 
to my friend Mr. Gattie for the zealous labour with whieh he worked 
at this “ indigesta moles,” and rescued from oblivion the majority 
of the Games which appear in this selection. I fear that some of 
the best-played Games in this Tournament have been lost, but those 
I have been able, with Mr. Gattie’s help, to preserve, will form, T 
trust, a not unworthy portion of the memorable Collection of Chess 
Games in which they appear. 

The careful notes prepared for so many of these Games by 
Mr. Gattie will speak for themselves, and I can answer for them as 
full of valuable instruction for younger players. 

A few Games in this Collection have been taken, with notes by 
the Rev. C. E. Ranken, from the British Chess Magazine. 

The reader will find the mark of admiration (!) and of interro- 
gation (?) to mark a fine move, and a doubtful or bad one, used 
freely throughout the Collection, as these marks often obviate the 
need of any extended comment. The neophyte must not be surprised 
to find that even the greatest masters sometimes make a very bad 
move ; they would not be human if this were not the case. 

J. ts ME. 
November, 1883, 

Irigunal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

REVISED INTERNATIONAL CHESS CODE, 

Drawn wp by Mesars. Donisthorpe and Woodgate, the Sub. Committee appointed 
for that purpose, and published for the consideration of Chess 
Players, and especially of the managers of future International 
Chese Tournaments. 

1,—If a player notices before his fourth move that either the board or 
pieces have been misplaced, he has the right to demand that the game shall 
be recommenced. 

2.—Before the beginning of the first game the first move and choice of 
colour are determined by lot. The first move changes alternately in match 
play. 

3.—If a player desires to adjust the position of a piece or Pawn on the 
board, he must say “J’adoube” before touching it. 

(Otherwise) 

4,—If a player touches a piece or Pawn of his own he must move it. 
Tf he touches one of his adversary’s he must take it, if it can be taken. 
If he touches a plurality of pieces or Pawns of the same colour, in either of 
these instances his adversary may elect which such piece or Pawn he will 
eall upon him to play or to take,as the case may be. If the rules governing 
the moves of pieces do not admit of the adversary exacting penalty as 
above, the player must move his King, but may not Castle. If the King 
cannot be moved without exposure to check, no penalty can then be 
exacted. 

N.B.—The adversary must claim a penalty under this rule before 
he makes his own next move. While he is considering the penalty 
his own time must run, and not that of his adversary. 

5.—A move is not completed until the player's hand has quitted the 
piece or Pawn played. 

6.—* Check” is announced to the King only; it is not absolutely 
necessary to call it. If a player on attacking his adversary’s King omits 
to call “ check,” penalties under Rule 4 cannot be enforced. The player 
whose King is attacked must move out of check or cover or capture 
the attacking piece so soon as his attention is called to the fact; and if 

riginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

iv REVISED INTERNATIONAL CHESS CODE. 

any moves have been made by either party while a King has remained 
exposed to attack they must be cancelled. 

7.—If the same position occurs thrice during a game, it being on each 
occasion the turn for the same player to move, the game is drawn. 

8.—A player may at any time call upon his adversary to mate him 
within fifty moves (move and reply being counted as one). If by the 
expiration of such fifty moves no piece or Pawn has been captured, nor 
Pawn moved, nor mate given, a draw can then be obtained. 

9.—The King cannot be Castled out of check, nor across an attacked 
square. In the act of Castling the King must be moved first, or else 
must be touched before the Rook is quitted, 

10.—A Pawn reaching the eighth square must be named as a Queen or 
piece, at option of player, independent of the number of pieces on the 
board. The created Queen or piece acts immediately in its new capacity. 
Until the Pawn has been so named the move is incomplete. 

11.—Time runs until a move is completed, as under these rules. 

12.—If on the resumption of an adjourned game the position is 
wrongly set up all subsequent moves are void, and the position must, if 
possible, be correctly replaced, and the game then played from the point 
of adjournment, 

13.—In the event of proof that a clock or glass has recorded incorrect 
time, the Umpire shall be empowered to make such adjustment in the 
record of the time as he shall consider equitable in view of the circum- 
stances disclosed, provided that he shall make no allowance in the case of 
actual stoppage of a clock, it being the duty of a player to see that his 
adversary’s clock is sct going. 

riginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

CONTENTS. 

The ° ° 

Game yed between Baron 
K and 8. Winawer . xly 
Cc ‘ xlvi 
Nominal rans of Pahari « . — Xlviii 
Balance 8 F ° ® ly 

Section I. 
J. H. ZOKERTORT’S GAMES. 

M. Tchigoria v. J. H. aeons ‘ 3 
J. Mortimer vy, 4 . 4 
J, Mason v. > ‘ - it 
G. H. Mackenzie v. a eee 
A. - ered Se ‘i 3 ae 
J. HL. Blackburn 0 
J. i Zakertort v v. "y. H Biackburne 10 
- v. Dr. N ‘ 13 
ee 3 Es Steinita 14 
rs v. Hl. B. Bird 16 
eae, + « Ay 
vo v. 8. Rosenthal 18 
v. 8S. Winawer . 1 
8S. Winawer v. J. H. Zukertort . - @ 
J. H. Zakertort v. B. E h - 21 
B, lisch v. J. H. Zakertort . . 23 
J. Zakertort v. B. lisch - BB 
a E be a hh J. Ul. Zukertort P 4 

Hy =e G. H. Mackenzie « Si 
J. Mason . 

2 v. . 38 
v.M.Tchigorin . . 35 
pe dad i. Zukertort . . . = 
c v. oy ‘ ou 
W. Steinitz v. si . ; . 9 
8S. Winawer v. . . 4+ 
ii, Seca eae Sas 
vy. J. H. Blackburne . 47 
8. Rosenthal v. J. H. Zukertort . . 
G. H. ara uf . Oo 
> a eS » 61 
IL. Zukertort v. J. Mortimer . 58 
Szction II. 
W. STEINITZ'S GAMES. 
W. Steinitz v. 8. Winawer . 57 
ss v. B. i ° 59 
is v. M, Ti 60 
‘ v.J.Mortimer . . . 62 
J. Mason v. W. Steinitz . ° - & 
G. H. Mackenzie vy. _,, = . 6 
A. B. Skipworth v. _,, : 2 a 
Dr. Noa ¥. fF :. é . 
J. H. Blackburne v. _,, ee as + ae 
W. Steinite y. H. E. Bird r » oe 

W. Steinitz v. A. Sellman . ‘ ‘ 
y.S. Rosenthal. . , 
s. Rosathel ¥. W. Steinitz. 

B. lisch y és 7 
H. E. Bird v. a 
3, Tekigoria ve W. Stetata. a a 
- v. . steth * . . 
J. Mortimer v. * ‘ . ° 
Winawer vy. ay ‘ 
. v. ” . 
x alaere . oe 
W. Steinits v. J. Mortimer . ar 
5. Rosenthal v. W. Steinitz . ‘ 
W. Steinitz ¥ a Mason. pe 
te oe 
= . ir. ee) 

W. Steinitz v. er Makers : 
J. Mason v..W. Steinits . * % 

- Secrion III, 
. H. BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 

ng A. Sellman > 
an v. J. H. Blackburne 
H. Blackburne v. G. H. Mackenzie 

. H, Mackenzie y. J. I. Mudhtares 
. Rosenthal y ; 
H. Blackburne v. 8. Rosenthal 

ss v. A. B. , Skipworth « ° 
. Winawer v. J. FL. Blac 

. H. Blackburne a 8. Witenes ‘ 
W H. Black sail 

ea Bice v. Dr. Noo 

‘Mortimer v. RA 

wee 

mam fe 

. me £8. 4.6 .9°6 

}. Skipworth y. J. H. Blackbarne ; 

. Hi. Blackburne v. M. Tchigorin 

pa . 8. Winawer . 
Blackburne F 

. H. Blackburne v. 8. Winawer : 

. H. Mackenzie v. J. H. Blackburne . 

Hi. Blackburne v. J. Mortimer 3 

SRSSS SESS 

9 SQ 

4 

f oeee 

«a 

# 
2 

Fi o 

Da shis 

- . 

a 

i838 

SRS Rh eS 

iH. 
.E 
iH 

. 

OM J. H. Blackbarne 
lackburne v. B, Englisch 

al fre 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

SESRERSERSERRSSUVABBE 

Sectiow 1V. 
M. TCHIGORIN’S GAMES, 

Dr. Noay. M. Tchigorin . ° 
M. es v. Dr.Noa . i . 

H. KE. B . M, Tehigorin 
M. Ti eas: A. Sellman ° 

S. Rosenthal v. M. Tchigorin 
8S. Winawer v. ¥5 é r 
B. Englisch v. 5 e ° 
M. Tchigoria y. J. Mortimer : 
en v. J. Mason . ° ° 
Mi. Tekigoin'v. G.I Mackonsio 
tT ve wie lw 
ss vy. A. B. Skipworth é 
” v. Dr. Noa . . . 
= 8. Winawer . . 
A. Sellman v. M. Tchigorin s Fs 
M. Tehigorin y. A. Sel F . 
(i. H. Mackenzie vy. M. fe . 
M, Tchigorin v. H. E. Bird as in 
y. B. Englisch $y how 
B. Englisch v. M. Tclngorin * 
M. Tehigorin v. 8. enthal . * 
S. Rosenthal v. M. Tchigorin . . 
M. T'chigorin y. S. Rosenthal , . 
. Maaon v. M. Te ee ee 
J, Mortimer v. oo ae 

Section Y. 

B. ENGLISCH’S GAMES, 

Dr. Noa y. B. Englisch a ce 
ee ee 
Snugliusech v. 2. Br e * 
A.8 Selman ¥. B. Englisch . 
= Leer et A. Sellman. . 
Rosenthal v. B. Engliach e 

B Englisch v. 8. Rosenthal ‘ 
e Winawer v. - Englisch . ° 

5. Bagieck s..7 
G, H. Mackenzie . 
G.I. “ecguaia #. B. Englisch 
B, Englisch v. G. H. Mackenzie 
v. S. Rosenthal . 
S. Rosenthal v. B. a 
B Englisch v. 8. Rosenthal 
‘s v. A. Bellman , 
v. H, E. Bird . ; 
J. Mortimer a Englisch . . . 
B. Englisch v. 8. bai ag nd 
Visa po 
B. sch v ac e. 
G. He Msckousio v. B. Englisch 
B. Englisch v. De. ‘Noa 
mA vy. A. B. Skipworth . 

ef tic (Ss ee wo & wo "2 

eee 

Section VI. 

G. Il, MACKENZIE’S GAMES, 

G. Hi. Mackonsie +. A. B. Skigwosth 

ait y. H. E. Bird . 

vy. A. Sellman . 

A. Sella v. G. H. Mackenzie . 
H. Mackenzie v. A. Sellman . 

v. 8. Rosenthal 

8. Rosenthal v. G. H. Mackenzie 

° 
8. Winawer v. ” ° 
’ 

“ coo v. 

H. Mackenzie v. J. Mortimer . 

CONTENTS. 

TaGE 

———S — . 

- pagar be G. OH. Mackenzie . F 

H. Mackenzie y. A. Sellman . 

e: Noa v. G. U. Mackenzie ° . 

Gi. Hl. Mackenzie v. Dr. Noa 2 é 

§. Rosenthal v. G. H. Mackenzie é 

Git. a gag 8. Rosenthal ‘ 
H. E. Bird v. G. H. Mackenzie . 

G. Il. Mackenzie v. If, E. Bird . M 

n v. J. Mortimer . ° 

” v. 8. Winawer . . 

Section VII. 
J. MASON’S GAMES. 

J. Mason v. G. Il. Mackenzie 
Pe v. A. B. Skipworth 
” v. Dr. Noa . 

Dr. Noa v. J. Mason . 

o mie 0,8 €@-0 
"se et © ew @ @ 

- 
z 
“ 
& 

* = 
< 
~ 

a oe ee 

fortimer v. ” 

= Sellman vy. J. Mason 
Hl. E. Bird v. cy 

J. Mason v. J. Mortimer 
Dr. Noav. J. Mason . 

Section VIL. 
S. ROSENTHAL’S GAMES. 

S. Rosenthal vy. H. E. Birl . : 
H. E. Bird vy. 8. Rosenthal . e 

evenees 

ey 

vy. 8. Winawer 
&. Winawer v. 8. Rosenthal i 
8. Rosenthal v. J. Mortimer 
A, B. Skipworth v. S. Rosenthal 
S. Rosen v. A. B. Skipw 
Dr. Noav. 8. Hosenthal . 
S. Winawer v. . 3s 
§. Rosenthal v. S. Winawer 
S. Winawer v. 8. Rosenthal 
S. Rosenthal y. Dr. Non. 
J. Mortimer v. 8. Rosenthal 
Il. E. Bird v. ’ é 
S. Rosenthal y. A. Scllman . ° 

*_.* et @ «© 

Ore (9 oe CCE Le) FF) fF ae 

Section IX. 
8. WINAWER’S GAMES. 
8. Winawerv. A. Sellman . . 
a Mortimer . . 
A. B. . Skipworth y. 8. Winawer . 
Dr. Noa v. n . 
8. Winawer v, Dr, Noa . 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

8. Winawer v. Dr. Noa ‘ 
Dr. Noa v. 8. Winawer « 
A. Sellman v. . - 

J. Mortimer v. 8. Winawer 

Section X. 

H. E. BIRD'S GAMES. 

H. KE. Bird v. 8. Winawer . . 
8S. Winawer v. H. E. Bird . ° 
H. E. Bird v. J. nee é ‘ 
J. Mortimer y. H.E, Bird . 

worth v. a 
Hi, EB. Bi vA. B. Skipwosth 
Dr. Be nbn E. Bird Pte 

A. 8 s 

H. E. ot rs A. Sellman . P 

2 Mortimer v. HH. _ Bird . ° 
K. Bird vy. Dr. Noa. 3 

8. ‘ Wissaers. H.E.Bird . 

Secrion XI. 

oe eo" 4, 

SEBSESeeeeey 

J. MORTIMER’S, DR. NOA’S, 
A. SELLMAN’S, AND THE REY, 
A. B. SKEIPWORTH'S GAMES. 

A. B. Skipworth v. J. Mortimer . 
J. Mortimer v. Dr. Noa > 

y. Dr. Now é 
7 v. A. man . 

Dr. Noa v. J. Mortimer e 
ellman 

» v. A.B ‘ . 

Secrion XII, 
A SELECTION OF 
PLAYED IN THE 

o.6 *o SS 6.8 wip fs 

GAMES 

CONTENTS. 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 

B. W. Fisher v. C. von Bardeleben 
y. A. MacDonnell v. ie 
F. 8. Enaor v. 

C. von Bardeleben y. L. Benima . 

W. M. Gattie v. C. von ao 
C. von Bardeleben v. J. 1. Minchin 
B. W. Fisher v. G. A. MacDonnell 
C. E. Ranken v. B. W. Fisher . 
Tt, BPs ‘ 
B. W. Fisher | v. C.J. Laatabort : 
AN Marl B. W. Fisher ‘ 
G. A. Macionnel v. G. H. D. Gossip . 
oO. J. rt vy. G. A. MacDonnell 
C, E, Ranken y. 1. Gunsberg =. 
I. Gunsberg v. T. H. Piper . 
rs v. W. M. é 
v. F. Hanter . ° 
J. 1. Minchin v. I. ; 
F. S. Engor v. on’ ‘ 
J. West v. * e 
G. H. D. Gossip v. C. B. Ranken 
ae vi T.H yaa ‘ 
W. M. Gattie vy. G. H. D. 
C. von Bardeleben y. C. E. Ranken 
M. Febvret vy. G. H. D. Gossip . 
H. Leey.C. E. Ranken . ° 
W.M. Gattiey. =, F 
C, E, Ranken y. L. ima. 
F. Hunter v. C. E. Ranken . ° 
H. Lee vy. C.J. Lambert . ° 
F. 8. Ensor vy. ss 
L. Benima v. x e 
T. H. Piper v. W. A. Lindsay . 
» ved. 1. Minchin d 
v. F. 8. Ensor 
C. B. Vansittart v. T. H. Piper . 
7, ai 2 vy. L. Benima , * 
WwW. M lly. Hi. Lee. ° 
HH. Lee v. F. 8. Engor . ‘ 
R. Rabson v. H. Lee . . ° 
H.Lecv.L.Benima . . . 
W. M. Gattiev. J. West . ° 
J. Lordv. W.M.Gattie . . 
» _ v. F. 8. Ensor : ‘. 
J.1.Minchinv.J.Lord . . 
L. Benima y. : 
W.E. Vyse v. W. hy "Lindsay 
J, 1. Minchin v. W. E. Vyae ° 

vy. ©. B. Vansittart 

W. L. Newham vy. I. Gunsberg . 
G. A. MacDonnell » 

T. Hi. Piper 

J. I. Minchin v. G, i: TMacDonen 

Or al f rom 

PRINC ETC JN UNIVERSITY 

351 

SEBSESERE 

SEEE 

ZESklegeees 

Original from 

Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

INTRODUCTION. 

—_»—_—_ 

Towagps the close of the year 1882 there was a general feeling in Chess 
circles in England that, considering the great success obtained and general 
interest felt in the International Tournament held in Vienna, and the long 
period that had elapsed since any such meeting had taken place in England, 
the time had arrived for organising such an undertaking in London, on 
a scale worthy of the country. With this object in view, the Honorary 
Secretary of the St. George’s Chess Club placed himself in communication 
with the leading members of the Chess circles in the Metropolis for the 
formation of a General Committee, whose names would be a guarantee for 
the genuineness of the movement, and on the 14th of October a meeting of 
the supporters was held, before which Mr. Minchin laid the steps which he 
had taken in the matter. 

At that meeting a Managing Committee and Officers were appointed, 
and the Honorary Secretary was requested to draw up an appeal for support 
to be circulated amongst all the Chess Clubs of Great Britain. 

The following Circular was then forwarded to the Honorary Secretary of 
every Chess Club in Great Britain, and Subscription Lists were at once 
opened at the St. George’s and City of London Chess Clubs ;— 

“In the year of the Great Exhibition, the First International Chess 
Tournament took place in London, and in 1862 the experiment was success- 
fully repeated. From that period such Tournaments have repeatedly taken 
place on the Continent, and on each occasion the interest of the Chess 
community in all countries has been increasingly stimulated by the closeness 
of the contests, and the development of new Chess Talent. No master has 
yet made a monopoly of the chief prize. It has been carried off once b 
Steinitz, after a tie with Blackburne; once by Zukertort, after a tie wit 
Winawer; once by Blackburne; and again Steinitz and Winawer tied for 
the first prize. On this final occasion the closeness of the struggle culmi- 
nated in the fact that, two days before the close of the Tournament, it was 
possible for the five leading players to make an even score, and in the 
actual result the sixth eps Foe was only two games and a half behind 
the score of the leaders. 

“Tn the numerous contests that have thus taken place on the Continent, 
in which more and more liberal Prizes have been offered for competition, 
the masters of the English school—native-born Englishmen and residents 
on English soil—have succeeded in carrying off the chief prizes ; but twenty 
years have eto since such a contest has taken place in England, and it is 
felt generally that the time has come for the Chess-players of this country 
to reciprocate the liberality that has been shown in so many foreign capitals, 
and that a Tournament should be organised to take i in London in the 
Spring of 1883, and that in its arrangements the Chess-players of Great 
Britain should not be behind the liberality of the Chess-players of Vienna. 

«In the International Tourney of 1851 the prizes amounted to £355, 
of which more than one-half constituted the first prize. In 1862, although 
larger sums were raised by subscription of the Chess public, more variety 

b 

riginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

x LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

was aimed at, and the amount allotted to the chief Tourney was only £210, 
of which £100 was given to the first prize. In the recent contest at Vienna, 
the total value of the prizes amounted to nearly £450, of which £210 was 
allotted to the first prize. 

“Tt is clear, therefore, that considering all the necessary expenses 
attendant on the scheme, and the advisability, when the contests have been 
so close, of increasing the value of the lower prizes to a fairer proportion 
with that of the first, One Thousand Pounds would be the smallest sum 
with which it would be possible to arrange for another International 
Tourney that would be worthy of the liberality of England, and her place 
in the Chess world, 

“ Pally aware of the arduous nature of the design, but feeling that the 
time has come for its accomplishment, and confident in the cordial co-opera- 
tion of the Chess public, a Committee of gentlemen, including the leading 
members of the Chess community of London, with the exception of masters 
likely to compete, hus been formed with the object of raising funds, with 
the above end in view. It is not by the efforts of the two leading Clubs of 
London alone that success can be achieved; it can only be obtained by the 
hearty co-operation of all classes of the Chess community, and to that 
public the Committee with confidence appeal. 

“The Committee anticipate a large accession to their number from the 
leading Chess-players throughout Great Britain as soon as their scheme has 
been brought to general notice. The names already attached, of so many 
influential members of the Metropolitan Chess circles, are a sufficient 
guarantee to the publie that the scheme is not put forward by a clique, but 
will be worthy of general support. 

“The Committee expressly appeal to the Secretaries of the Chess Clubs 
throughout the United Kingdom and the Colonies to lay the scheme before 
their Members, and to open Subscription Lists in its support. 

“There is no member of the Chess community who does not benefit by 
a Tournament of this nature. The fine games produced are a pleasure for 
all time, and in adding to the stock of models of practical play, afford 
gratification to every amateur, however moderate may be his own skill. 
Though it is early to make definite promises, it is the purpose of the 
Committee to make arrangements for the publication of the Games ina 
complete form, at an earlier period after its conclusion than bas yet been 
attained on these occasions, and every Club or private individual subseribing 
One Guinea to the funds, will receive a copy of the Games played, 

* Although an International Tournament on a liberal scale is the main 
object which the Committee have in view, they hope that the support 
aceorded will be sufficient to allow of the offer of Prizes for a Minor 
Contest, to be confined to players who may not take part in the leading 
Tournament.” 

H.R.H. the Duke of Albany graciously consented to become the Patron 
of the undertaking, and adhesions were received by the Honorary Secretary 
from all quarters. Until the close of the year but little work fell on the 
Committee, but on the suggestion of ‘the Honorary Secretary of the 
Atheneum Chess Club, Camden Road, it was determined that a Free 
Admission to witness the play should be granted to every Club or individual 
subscribing Five Guineas to the funds, and in the case of a Club, such 
Free Pass would be available for a single person at a time, a bond-jile 
membor of the Club in question, 

Orginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS. xi 

By the close of the year, including promised support from Calcutta and 
the balance of the Lowenthal Trust, amounting to £50, which Mr. Medley 
was prepared to. contribute, the minimum amount of £1,000, set down as 
necessary for the purpose, had been obtained, and a Sub-Committee, 
consisting of Messrs. Hirschfeld, Wayte, and the Honorary Secretary, was 
appointed to draw up a Programme for the consideration of the Managing 
Committee. 

On the 5th of eerie the Programme submitted was carefully discussed 
in committee, and published as approved on the 9th, when it was forwarded 
to all the leading players of Europe. 

“LONDON INTERNATIONAL CHESS TOURNAMENT, 1883. 
“ Under the Paironage of H.R.H. the Duke of Albany. 

“Tax Tournament will be held in London, to commence on Thursday, 
the 26th April. Entries will close on the 23rd April, on or before which 
date Entrance Fees and Deposits must be paid. The following Prizes are 
offered for competition :-— 

“1st Prize ‘ A : * 5 . . d . £250 
“Sad. « ‘ R ; ‘4 A . ‘ ‘ - 180 
on xz F . ; A 3 A ; ; 120 
“Ath ,, : : P 5 < 5 ¥ . 90 
Rts ; : ; 5 é . 4 ‘ 70 

“6th ,, ; — is ; as adth ‘ 50 
“7th ,, (offered by Baroa [olisch on certain stipulations) 25 

“These prizes may be increased if the Funds at the disposal of the 
Committee permit, 

« Rugs. 

1. The Entrance Fee is £5, in addition to a deposit of £5, the latter to 
be subject to Rules 5, 6, and 18. 

“2, Each player must play two games with every other competitor, with 
alternate first move in each round. The prizes will be awarded according 
to the final score, drawn games not counting except as laid down in 
Rule 8. 

“3, Players, entitled to any prize, making an equal score, must play 
again with each other for the respective prizes in abeyance. If two players 
tie they must play a match for the winner of the first two games. If 
three or more tie, the pool must be played out according to the rules of the 
Tournament. 

“4. The order in which the several competitors must play will be settled 
by drawing before the commencement of the Tournament, and such order 
will hold good throughout the first round. The players so paired will draw 
for the first move, and the loser of the move in the first round will have 
the first move against the same antagonist in the second round. 

“5, At the close of the first round any player may withdraw from the 
Tournament, and his deposit of £5 will then be returned to him. 

“6. Any player withdrawing from the Tournament before the com- 
»letion of either round, save with the sanction of the Playing Committee 
or sufficient cause shown, will forfeit his yer of £5, 

“7. Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays are days fixed for play, 
on each of which days every competitor, from the commencement till tho 
termination of the Tournicnent; must play with the antagonist against 
whom he is drawn, during the hours fixed for play, 

ir al ror 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

xii LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

“8, Wednesdays and Saturdays are bye-days, but on those days all 
players who have made a drawn game must play again with each other, and 
should the game again be drawn they must play for a third time, when the 
draw will be final, and scored one half to each player. ‘The first move will 
be taken alternately by each player in the second or third game under these 
circumstances. All games unfinished on play-days must be played off on 
these bye-days, and when a player has to play out an unfinished game and 
a draw the former will have the precedence, but such player must play off 
the draw as soon as he has completed his unfinished game. When both 
nicole of an unfinished game standing over from a previous day have 

nished their game set down for any play-day before the adjournment they 
ean be called upon by the Playing Committee to play out such unfinished 
game during the evening hours of play. Arrears must be played out 
at the end of the Tournament if required by the Committee, but 
this will only be insisted on when the score for a prize is dependent on 
the result. 

“9. Play will commence daily at 12 noon, and continue till 5 p.m. 
There will then be an adjourument of two hours, when play will be resumed 
until 11 p.m. Throughout these hours of play, both on play-days and bye- 
days, one member of the Playing Committee will be present, to be referred 
to by the players in case of dispute. All questions of fact will be at 
onee decided by such member of the Playing Committee, and his decisiun 
shall be final. 

“10, The time limit is fixed at 15 moves an hour, and will be regulated 
by stop-clocks. 

“11, The player who exceeds the time limit forfeits the game, which will 
be scored as won by his opponent. It is the duty, not only of his antagonist, 
but of any competitor aware of the fact, to bring at ouce to the notice of 
the member of the Playing Committee present any infraction of the time 
limit, and he will decide on the facts of the ease, and such decision shall be 
tinal. No mere onlooker may interfere in any way, either as regards the 
time limit or any infraction of the ordinary rules of play, unless called on 
to give evidence as to facts. 

12. The clock of the player who does not appear at the hour fixed for 
play, or after the adjournment, will be set, in motion by the member of the 
Playing Committee present, and after a delay of one hour the game will be 
lost by the absentee under the time limit. If he arrives before the expira- 
tion of the hour he must make 15 moves in whatever interval of time is left 
at his disposal. Should neither player appear within one hour of the fixed 
time, the game will be counted as lost against both. If a player's clock be 
set in motion after the adjournment, the amount of time at his disposal 
before the same will be taken into consideration. lor example ;—A game 
is adjourned at the 40th move, and A has used 2 hours and 30 minutes; 
he arrives late after the adjournment, and his clock is set in motion. A 
loses the game if at the completion of three hours he has not played 
his 45th move. 

“13. At the hour fixed for adjournment, the player whose turn it is to 
move must deliver his next move in writing, in a closed envelope, to the 
member of the Playing Committee present. Such envelopes will be opened 
after the adjournment by the member of the Playing Committee then 
present, in the presence of both the competitors, and such member will make 
ou the board the move as written down. Consultations and analysing 
moves on a Chess-board during adjournments are strictly prohibited, and 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS. x1 

any competitor proved guilty of the same will be expelled from the Tourna- 
ment, and will forfvit his entrance-fee and deposit. 

“14, All the games are the property of the International Tournament 
Committee. The winner of a game and the first player in a drawn game 
are bound to deliver, at latest on the second play-day, a correct legible copy 
of the same to the member of the Playing Committee present in the room. 
The non-compliance with this rule involves a penalty of £1, at tho discretion 
of the Playing Committee. 

**15. Each competitor is bound in honour to play all his games with his 
full strength, and in behalf of other competitors no player is allowed to 
waive any exaction of a penalty, either under the rules of the Tournament 
or the gencral laws of Chess. All arrangements which may influence the 
final result of the Tournament, unless sanctioned by the Committee, are 
prohibited, and all parties proved guilty of the same will be expelled from 
the Tournament, with the Perfeit of entrance-fee and deposit. 

“16. The Chess rules adopted for the Tournament are the International 
Code as laid down in the last edition of the German Handbook, with the 
addition that if a series of moves be repeated three times the opponent can 
claim a draw. 

"17. In case of any competitor withdrawing from the Tournament before 
he has completed a round, if he has played half or more of his games in 
that round, the score will stand good, and the unplayed games will be 
forfeited to his opponents. If he has played less than half his games his 
score will be annulled, and in this caso the forfeit, of his deposit will be 
given, at the discretion of the Managing Committee, as a solatium to be 
divided between those players who have won games from him, and which 
will not count towards their score. 

“18. The Committee reserve to themselves absolute power to modify any 
of the above rules in special cases. 

“The Committee are desirous to carry out @ Minor Tournament simul- 
taneously with the one for masters. Their ability to do so, and the amount 
of the Prizes in such Minor Tournament, will depend on the additional 
support which they hope to receive, especially from the Provincial Chess 
Clubs in Great Britain. 

“James Innes Mincuin, Hon. Sec. 
“ January 0th, 1883, 47, Alhemarle Street, W.” 

The regulations herein laid down were founded generally on those in 
force at the previous International Tournaments of Paris and Vienna, but a 
few important novelties were introduced, in requiring a deposit in addition 
to the entrance-fee, to be returned to players only in case of full compliance 
with the regulations of the Tournament, in the scheme for the treatment of 
drawn games, and in the appointment of members of a Playing Committee 
to act as umpires, and to be absolute judges of all questions of fact. 

As regards drawn games it was felt by all the members of the Sub- 
Committee who drew up the rules that the previous practice by which a 
drawn game was final and counted one half to each was most unfair to the 
strongest players, as it compelled them in effect to give the odds of the 
drawn games to the weaker competitors. The latter would be perfectly 
satisfied with such a result against a leading master, while he could not 
afford to risk the loss of his position by drawing against one of the weaker 
antagonists, and in endeavouring to win in a drawing position might 

Irigunal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

xiv LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

even lose the game. The best remedy for the evil was to consider a drawn 
game, as it is called in French, a nullity, and to continue playing till one or 
other won. But as this would have entailed a greater expenditure of time 
than could be given to an International Contest, the compromise of accepting 
the third drawn game as final was agreed to, and experience has shown that 
the object which the Sub-Committee had in view, to give skill its fair 
advantage, was realised by the arrangement made. 

It is a singular fact, considering the strong opposition that was after- 
wards raised to the scheme, that in the close discussion in committee on the 
Sub-Committee’s proposals a proposition made by one member that drawn 
games should be final, and count one half to each, failed at the time to find 
a seconder, and the scheme which the Sub-Committee had so much at heart 
was passed at the time with practical unanimity. 

It will be remarked that simultaneously with the issue of this Programme 
the Committee reiterated their desire to carry out a Minor Tournament 
simultaneously with that for masters, and looked for ability to do so to 
additional support which they trusted to receive from the Provincial Chess 
Clubs of Great Britain, whose members would naturally be most interested 
in this part of the general design, 

Before the close of January the prospects of the Tournament brightened 
greatly, and the Committee were confident that complete success would 
be attained. Mr. Steel, an ardent supporter of the cause, organised a 
committee of co-operation in Calcutta and opened subscriptions throughout 
India. The Viceroy of India and the Lieutenant-Governor of Bengal 
supported the project, and their example was followed liberally by natives 
and Europeans alike in the Northern Presidency, so that upwards of £200 
was remitted to England from this source. At the same time assistance 
of the most munificent description arrived from Southern India. In answer 
to applications from Mr. Minchin, H.H. Rama Varma, Maharaja of 
Travancore, the only independant sovran within the limits of the Madras 
Presidency, and one of the most enlightened princes of India, sent a dona- 
tion of £80 to the funds of the Tournament, and, about the same time, the 
Maharaja of Vizayanagaram, the leading nobleman and largest landed 
proprietor in Southern India, sent by telegram to Mr. Minchin the sum of 
£200, which he placed at his disposal for any prizes he might determine 
upon in connection with the International Tournament. 

Mr, Minchin during his official service in India had been intimately 
acquainted with the father of the present Maharaja of Vizayanagaram and 
with the donor himself, who was at that period an interesting youth, 
delighting in manly sports and in association with English gentlemen. He 
regarded the Maharaja’s commission as a trust, and determined on carrying 
it out in the manner that would give the most satisfaction to the son of his 
old friend. As a Minor Tournament had always formed part of the Com- 
mittee’s scheme, which want of funds had hitherto prevented from being 
carried out, Mr. Minchin determined to devote the Maharaja's princely 
donation to found a separate Tournament, to be called, in his honour, after 
his own name. He, therefore, offered the amount to the Committee for this 
re ag and no other, and on that understanding the donation was 
accepted. 

Mr. Minchin'’s action in this matter was subjected at the time to much 
opposition and some not very generous criticism. Gentlemen, whose only 
acquaintance with Oriental races was a casual meeting with a dusky crossing- 

nginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS. xv 

sweeper in the streets of London, gravely informed him that he was 
disgracing the Maharaja's liberality by allowing his prizes to be played for by 
second-class Chess-players! It was confidently asserted that no Chess-player 
of mark would join in a second-class contest, that certainly no foreigner 
would enter, and that it would degenerate into a meeting of the English 
Counties Chess Association, playing for prizes of preposterous value in a 
contest which could in no way be considered International. 

Undeterred by such criticisms, Mr. Minchin persisted in carrying out 
his scheme, determined in the first place to give the Maharaja of Vizayana- 
garam a Tournament of his own,and in the second to broaden the field of 
interest in the International Tournament by holding a second-class contest 
simultaneously with that for masters, which should free the latter to a great 
extent from the cumbersome entrance of ambitious amateurs, and allow the 
latter to compete in their own field with such professional antagonists as 
were confessedly not of the highest rank. 

His hope was that the Master Tournament would be confined to about 
twelve of the leading masters of the world of Chess, struggling with cach 
other on terms that would insure its due supremacy to skill aud genius, and 
that the Vizayanagaram Tournament might at the same time employ tho 
energies of the strong players of all countrios below the highest class in 
friendly competition for prizes not unworthy of the occasion. In spite of 
some dimpostnkennats that hope was realised. 

Early in February the first prospectus of the Vizayauagaram Tourna- 
ment was published, the chief feature consisting in the arrangement that 
evening play was made compulsory, in order to admit a large clasa of com- 
petitors who would be debarred from morning play by their business 
uvocations. Much discontent was felt at this stipulation by playera in the 
provinces, who considered that it would so protract the contest as to debar 
from it all provincial players who might be unable to stay for two months 
in London. The Committee had a hard task in their endeavours to meet 
almost incompatible interests, but after much consideration and corre- 
spondence a revised prospectus was issued on the 21st of March, which 
met, as far as ible, the difficulties of the case, and which was fortunately 
able to be carried out successfully. 

“LONDON INTERNATIONAL CHESS TOURNAMENT, 1883. 
“Tae VizAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 
“Under ihe Patronage of HRI. the Duke of Albany. 

“ The Vizayanagaram Tournament shall be open to such players of all 
nations as shall not, in the opinion of the Managing Committee, be clearly 
marked out by their public performances as eligible only for the Major 

Tournament. 
“The Committee in deciding such eligibility will be guided principally 

by the following considerations :— 
“1, Whether a player in any International Tournament since 1869 has 

made a score equal to half the score of the winner. 
“2. Whether a player has in public match play achieved distinction 

equivalent to the preceding. 
“ The following Prizes have been offered for competition by the Maharaja 

of Vizayanagaram. 

Original from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

xvi LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

“Ist Prize . ‘ it 4 5 ; . £60 

“ind »° » ‘ . ‘ . . . : ‘ 50 
i, a . : é 7 ‘ ; : . 40 
“Mh 4 - ; . ‘ - a : . ; 30 
Pe nas BE Oe 7» ae 

“Tf there are 40 entries the Entrance Fees will be divided into four 
additional Prizes of £15, £10, £8,and £7. In any case the whole of the 
entries will be given as additional Prizes, of the allocation of which due 
notice will be given. 

“Tt shall be open to any successful competitor to receive his prize in 
plate, an objet d'art, or in cash, at his own option, 

“The Committee have determined that unless sixteen competitors enter 
for the Vizayanagaram Tournament the above scale of prizes shall be 
reduced one-half. 

“In the case of more than twenty competitors entering the Tournament 
the contest will be limited to one round, in which case each player will have 
the first move in half his games, as fur as practicable. 

“The following Rules will be in force :— 

“1. For the Vizayanagaram Tournament, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Friday will be play-days, and Saturday will be a bye-day. 

“2. The hours of play will be from noon till 5 p.m., and from 7 p.m, 
till midnight. 

“3. Evening play will be compulsory on all competitors, and morning 
play will be optional. 

‘4. Competitors who may wish to play both morning and evening daily 
will state the fact on entering. The Committee will arrange for these 
competitors to play with one another at morning sittings, and to have the 
priority of play with those eompetitors in the evening who enter only for 
evening play. Competitors who have been paired against each other for 
evening play may by mutual agreement, and with the consent of the 
member of the Playing Committee present, play at any hour during the 
morning sitting. 

“5, A drawn game will be final, and count one-half. 

“ 6. Games unfinished at either sitting during the week will be plaved out 
on Saturdays, at morning or evening play by mutual agreement, subject to 
Rule III. Players otherwise disengaged may by mutual agreement, and 
with the consent of the member of the Playing Committee present, play out 
an unfinished game at any time during official hours of play. 

“7. The time limit is fixed at 20 moves an hour. 

8. The number of entries for the Tournament will be limited to 40, of 
which the Committee will reserve 10 until the 16th April for intending 
pare absent from the United Kingdom. Subject to such reservation, the 
Tight of competition will be determined by priority of entry. Should the 
eatries thus reserved not be made use of, they will be allotted, according to 
date of application, to players resident in the United Kingdom. 

“The Entrance Fee is £1, with a deposit of £5, to be paid on or before 
the 23rd April, when the entries will be closed. 

“ All Rules of the Major Tournament not specially modified by these 
Rules will be in force for the Vizayanagaram Tournament. 

“ March 2let, 1883.” “James Innes Mincnin, //on, See, 

About, the same period, as the funds at the disposal of the Committee 
had now reached £1,300, in addition to the Maharaja of Vizayanagaram’s 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS. xvii 

donation, it was determined that the following sums should be allocated as 
prizes to the Major Tournament, being far more than double the amount 
that had ever been previously played for :— 

lst prize, £300; 2nd prize, £175; 3rd prize, £150; 4th prize, £125; 
5th prize, £100; 6th prize, £75, in addition to a Consolation Prize of £25, 
presented by Baron Kolisch, to the player making the highest score against 
the six prizeholders, and £50 from the Lowenthal Trust. 

For this Consolation Prize, Mr. Medley, the Trustee of the Fund, in 
consultation with Mr. Minchin, arranged that it should be divided amongst 
those competitors who failed to gain any other prize, according to their 
score, calculated on the Gelbfuhs system, on tho value of the games won 
from cach antagonist. Thus the winner of the 1st prize in the Tournament 
having made a final score of 22 games, each nou-prizeholder winning from 
hig scored 22 for such win. A game won from a player whose final score 
was 6 would count for that amount, and so on. 

The prospectuses and rules for both Tournaments having been decided 
ome and published, the most urgent solicitations were made by a section 
of the English Chess-players, supported by their partisans in the Chess 
Press, for the alteration of Rule VIII. of the Programme, which had intro- 
duced the new principle for the treatment of drawn games. A strong 
section of the Committee who had originally supported the scheme, were 
induced to become advocates of its opponents, and as Mr. Hirschfeld was 
at the time absent from England, the brunt of tho battle in its defence fell 
on Mr. Minchin, who regarded it as a vital matter of principle whether 
the highest prizes should go to the highest skill, or an element of chance 
should be allowed to vitiate the truth of the test, and a second-class player 
by such means be enabled to carry off the highest honours. He was able 
to show that no foreign expression of opinion adverse to Rule VIII. had been 
elicited, and that while such was the case the Committee would stultify 
themselves by withdrawing terms published to the Chess-players of Europe 
in obedience to the dictation of a section of the English Chess community. 
It was determined, therefore, to obtain the opinion of all probable com- 
petitors in the Major Tournament, and when this was received there was 
found to be such a preponderance of approval of the new system, that its 
strongest opponents on the Committee acknowledged that they could no 
longer propose its alteration. Amongst English players, Messrs. Bird, 
Steinitz, and Zukertort were entirely in favour of Rule VIIL, and to the 
credit of the foreign masters, they generally supported a system which 
would certainly protract the contest and thus be opposed to their personal 
convenience, with the conviction that it would afford the fairest test of skill, 
The experience of the Tournament has shown that the new plan answered 
its intended purpose, but to obviate the needless protraction of the contest 
it should on future occasions be modified in one important particular. 
Where two opponents have drawn, and are satisfied with that result, the draw 
should be allowed to be final, as it is mere pedantry, if not cruelty, to make 
those players play again for a second and third time with a moral certainty 
of arriving at the same result. The object of the plan is to give skill its 
legitimate chance, and to save a first-class player from the necessity of 
playing to win a drawn game by allowing him a second and a third oppor- 
tunity of showing his superiority. Where two players are content to draw, 
no rules that the wit of man can devise can prevent their obtaining their 
purpose: the men are changed off rapidly, no attack is attempted on either 
side, and on the first decent opportunity a draw is offered and accepted 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

xviii LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

when the astonished spectator imagines that the real struggle is about to 
commence. Numberless instances of this mode of proceeding will be found 
in the present Tournament. It certainly cannot called Chess, but it 
cannot be prevented, and no possible advantage is gained by requiring the 
operation to be gone through thrice instead of once. The sole reason for 
which I supported Rule VIL. in committee was my conviction that such a 
system was necessary in a Tournament where the prizes were higher than 
had ever before been contended for, and where the championship of the 
Chess world was at stake, to insure the highest prizes senile falling to the 
best players. One opponent of Rule VIII. naively expressed his objection to 
it on the grvund that it crushed the weak. I considered it our duty to 
devise rules that should most effectually crush the weak, and discover by 
selection the strongest. In the Vizayanagaram Tournament there were 
no such reasons for enforcing Rule VIILI., and there I never urged its 
adoption, 

The generous subscriptions of the members of the St. George's and City 
of London Chess Clubs had hitherto formed the bulk of the funds, but 
before the opening of the Tournament the leading Clubs in the Provinces 
took their share in the work. The small Club of Penzance was the first that 
sent in a subscription entitling it to a free pass; and the Clubs of Clifton, 
Liverpool, and Glasgow came forward liberally in their turn, while more 
than one Club of working men made up their guinea by shilling subscrip- 
tions, proving the universal interest taken by the Chess-players of Great, 
Britain in what was felt to be a national undertaking, At the last moment 
the Committee had the pleasure of receiving a subscription raised in the 
Australian Colonies through the joint exertions of Messrs. Wisker and 
Burns, offered and accepted as a proof of the good feeling of Colonial 
Chess-players towards the Mother Country. The subscription-list appended 
to this volume shows without cavil that the movement was not only 
national in its character, but extended throughout the dependencies of that 
mighty Empire of which our little island is the centre, 

The success achieved was greater than the most sanguine promoters of 
the undertaking had anticipated, and enabled the Committee to make 
arrangements commensurate with such support. On previous occasions in 
London the play throughout the Tournament had taken place chiefly in the 
different Chess Clubs and at the Divan, and in 1861 only on one day had 
the proceedings been really public. On this occasion the Committee deter- 
mined that the play should take place in public throughout the Tourna- 
ment, and through the intervention of Mr. Rosenbaum, an active member 
of the Managing Committee, the Victoria Hall in the Criterion was secured 
for a period of eight weeks, at a moderate rental, which afforded ample 
accommodation for the players in both the intended Tournaments, and for 
as large a body of spectators as could convenicutly witness the play. 

It was obvious that the work of carrying out all the arrangements 
connected with the fitting up of the Hall and the superintendence of the 

jay could not be carried out by the Committee, and as Mr. Rosenbaum 
Kindly offered to accept the task, he was appointed Director of Play, and 
the whole responsibility as regards the expenditure to be incurred and the 
wlmittance of the public at a rate fixed by the Committee was entrusted to 
this gentleman, on condition that, after mecting certain necessary items of 
outlay, he should receive 50 per cent. of the net proceeds taken from the 
public. It was with no view of personal gain that Mr. Rosenbaum entered 
on this arrangement, He wished to be able to show some hospitality to the 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS. xix 

foreign players from the funds at the Committee’s disposal in a manner 
which could not have been carried out by the Committee, and it was 
doubtful to the last whether he would be reimbursed the amount which ho 
spent in this manner. I think it due to Mr. Roseubaum to make this public 
statement, as much misrepresentation of his motives has occurred. As will 
be recorded later, for a period of two months Mr. Rosenbaum abandoned 
his own avocation as an artist, and was compelled in consequence to give 
up one valuable commission for a portrait, while he devoted himself to the 
interests of the Tournament, in reality without any remuneration whatso- 
ever, and the thanks of all interested in the Tournament are especially due 
to him for his labours, 

The appointment of the members of the Playing Committee completed 
the | gps: arrangements. Twelve gentlemen known in the Chess 
world consented to accept the onerous duties involved, one of them being 
always present to perform an Umpire's duties throughout the hours of 
morning and evening play, and the following rules were drawn up for their 
guidance and distributed for information amongst all the competitors in 
each Tournament :— 

“LONDON INTERNATIONAL CHESS TOURNAMENT. 
“Under the Patronage of H.R. the Duke of Albany. 

“Tystructions FoR GuipANCE or MEMBERS OF THE PLAYING 
ComMMITTEE, 

“1. Tho member on duty for the day, at either morning or evening 
sitting, will be in attendance shortly before the hour fixed for play, and his 
first task will be to see that the Director of Play, or his assistant, has 
arranged the clocks correctly for the various competitors. i 

“2. As the clock strikes noon the member of Playing Committee will at 
once go round the tables in order, commencing with No. 1, and set in 
motion the clocks of any competitors who are not present. 

“3. Throughout the hours of play he will be present, bound to receive 
complaints that may be made by any competitor, either as to the infraction 
of the time limit or of any of the laws of Chess. 

“4, In case of an alleged infraction of the time limit he will at once 
decide the fact by the state of the clock, the score of the game, and by 
taking any evidence of players or bystanders that he may consider necessary 
to form a fair judgment of the case. If the alleged infraction of the time 
limit be not proved to his satisfaction the game will proceed, but if proved 
he will at once score the game on the official score sheet. The M.P.C. is 
bound to take notice of any infraction of the time limit that may come to 
his knowledge, even if no complaint be made. 

“5. When any game is reported by the players as won and lost he will 
at once register such won games on the official score sheet. In the 
ease of a drawn game, Rule VIII. will come into force, and the M.P.0, 
will enter the result with the letter D in the score sheet, and the names of 
i Soret in a book kept for the purpose, to play again on the first 

ye-day. 

“6, In case of a complaint of any infraction of the laws of Chess the 
M.P.C, will take evidence as to the facts of the case, and decide the point in 
dispute according to the laws in foree. A decision on a point of law thus 
made may be appealed against to the Committee of Appeal, and in case of 

ia al fre 1} 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

xx LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

immediate appeals the M.P.C. will direct the players to proceed with the 
game. 

“7. Ten minutes before the close of play the M.P.C. will give notice to 
all competitors of unfinished games that such games must be adjourned, 
and that the player whose turn it is to move must record his next move in 
a closed envelope, instead of making it on the board. The player who has 
made the last move will then record the position of the pieces on a diagram 
provided for the purpose, and the player who has to move will inclose that 
diagram, together with the record of his move, in the envelope. At the 
hour fixed for adjournment the M.P.C, will collect the written moves inclosed 
in envelopes, with the names of tlie competitors written thereon, and the 
exact time used by each at that period, recorded from the clocks, These 
envelopes he will vias in a portfolio kept for their retention by the Director 
of Play. 

“8. The member of the Playing Committee on duty after the adjourn- 
ment will, previous to the hour fixed for the resumption of play, see that all 
the clocks are set correctly, and that in the adjourned games they correspond 
with the entries of time on the envelopes. At the hour fixed for play he 
will first set in motion the clocks of the competitors for the Vizayanagaram 
Tournament who may not have arrived, and will then in due order, com- 
mencing with Board 1, open the envelopes containing the moves of the 
adjourned games in the presence of both the competitors, and make the 
inove on the board exactly as it is written on the inclosed paper. The 

vnalties attached by the laws of Chess to playing an impossible move will 

applied to the player whose recorded move is impussible. Any error 
in the diagram may be corrected from the score sheet of the game. When 
either competitor of an adjourned game is not present his clock will be set 
in motion, and only after his arrival is the envelope to be opened and the 
move made. 

“9. A book of engagements will be kept for competitors in the Vizayana- 
garam Tournament who have entered only for evening play, in which such 
players are to enter the hour at which they may be prepared to contend by 
mutual agreement during morning hours, and the punctual observance of 
such agreements will be enforced by the M.P.C. placing the clock of such 
person in motion if he fails to attend at the hour agreed upon. 

“10. Two books will be kept in which to enter the names of players of 
unfinished games in both Tournaments. In the case of the Major Tourna- 
ment, when two players have finished their game before the adjournment, 
the M.P.C. may call upon them to play during the evening hours of play 
any unfinished ear In the case of the Vizayanayaram ‘Tournament such 
games will be played out on Saturdays, as mutually arranged by the players, 
and such arrangements will be entered in the above book. 

“11, The M.P.C. will collect the scores of games, finished and unfinished, 
and place them in charge of the Director of Play, who will report to the 
Committee any infringement of the obligation imposed by Rule XTV. on 
competitors. 

“12, As only a selection of the games of the Vizayanagaram Tourna- 
ment will be published, Rule XIV. will not apply, and the recording of their 
games will be optional on the part of competitors. 

“James Innes Mincuin, Hon, Sec. 
“April 17th, 1883.” 

Original from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

PRELIMINARY PROCERDINGS. XXi 

On the 23rd April the following entries wero received for the Major 
Tournament, and as out of the fourteen names ten consisted of the acknow- 
ledged leading masters of the world, suecess was no longer doubtful :— 

1, M. Rosenthal, of Paris. 
2. Dr. Noa, of Hungary. 
3. Mr. S. Winawer, of Warsaw. 
4, M. Techigorin, of St. Petersburg. 
5. Mr. Mason, of London. 
6. Mr. Englisch, of Vienna. 
7. Rev. A. B. Skipworth, Tetford Rectory, England. 
8. Dr. Zukertort, of London. 
9. Mr. Blackburne, of London. 
10. Mr. Steinitz, of London. 
11. Mr. Bird, of London. 
12. Mr. A. G. Sellman, of Baltimore. 
13. Captain Mackenzie, of New York. 
14. Mr. Mortimer, of London. 

There are only two names absent from the list whose presence might 
have been wished. for to make the competition complete. Mr. L. a 
the great German master, was unable to attend; and all mist have 
regretted the absence of Mr. Potter from the list of English competitors, 
whose matches with Zukertort and Mason had proved his right to contend 
in any assembly of Chess-players. England was, however, well represented 
by sevon competitors, and the presence of the champions of Paris, Hungary, 
Warsaw, St. Petersburg, Vienna, Baltimore, and New York proved how 
universal was the answer of the leading Chess-players of the world to the 
London invitation, and how completely international was the contest. 

The following were the entries for the Vizayanagaram Tournament :— 

A. G. Puller, Esq., of Youngsbury, Ware. 

. Rev. W. L. Newham, of Loughborough. 

. R. Rabson, Esq., of Woolwich. 

. Bexley Vansittart, Esq., of Rome. Evening play. 

wm co bo 

5. F. W. Ensor, Esq., of London. 
6. M. Casimir de Weidlich, of Paris. 
7. Mr. Gossip, of London. Evening play. 
8 Mr. Gunsberg, of London. Evening play. 
9. F. H. Dudley, Esq., of London. 
10. J. Lord, Esq., of Manchester. 
11. M. Febvret, of Paris. Evening play. 
12. A, Hunter, Esq., of London. Evening play. 

13, C. J. Lambert, Esq., of Exeter. 

14, J. West, Eaq., of Derby. 

15. W. Elliot Vyse, Esq., of London. Evening play. 
16. Rev. G. A. Donnell, of London. 

17. B. W. Fisher, Esq., of Cheltenham. 

18. Rev. C, Ranken, of Malvern. 

19. Mr, Piper, of Greenwich, Evening play. 
20. Herr Von Bardeleben, of Berlin. Evening play. 
21. W. Mundell, Esq., of London. Evening play. 
22. M. L. Benima, of Holland. Evening play. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

xXx11 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

23. H. Lee, Esq., of London. Evening play, 
24. R. Pilkington, Esq., of London. 

25, W. A. Lindsay, Esq., of London. 

26, J. I. Minchin, Esq., of London. 

27. W. M. Gattie, Esq., of London, Evening play. 

Of these, M. Casimir de Weidlich was unable at the last moment to 
attend, leaving 26 actual competitors, of whom four were not resident in 
England. 

The names of Messrs. Gunsberg and MacDonnell in this list had occa- 
sioned some difficulty. They were objected to by some of the competitors 
as first-class players, excluded by the preliminary regulations for entry 
to the Vizayanagaram Tournament. It is notoriously difficult, if not 
impossible, to define clearly the boundary between first and second class. 
The classes merge into ore another by imperceptible gradations, and the 
Committee, taking a liberal view of their functions, determined that both 
these gentlemen were eligible for entry. It was well for the interests of the 
Tournament that they did so, and it is only to be regretted that some 
strong players were deterred from entering by fear of these formidable 

names. 

a _The drawing for the first round of the Major Tournament was arranged 
on tcz- evening of the 23rd April, but that for the Vizayanagaram Tourna- 
ment was, wudler its peculiar regulations, a much more difficult process, and 
taxed the arithmetical skill of Mr. Cubison, who assisted the Honorary 
Secretary in making the necessary arrangements. Fourteen players were 
entered to play twice a day, and twelve only in the evening, and the former 
had the right of priority of play in the evening with the latter class, so that 
as the number of entries reduced the contest to a single round, it 
might be completed by the former class within three weeks. The formi- 
dable problem thus created was ingeniously solved by Mr, Cubison’s labours, 
and all arrangements were completed for play to commence on Thursday, 
the 26th April. 

THE TOURNAMENT. 

Before noon on Thursday, the 26th April, the Victoria Hall was filled 
with spectators eager to witness the commencement of the fray. The 
players in the Major Tournament were placed in the northern portion of 
the Hall, protected by an inclosure of ropes from the pressure of lookers-on, 
The competitors in the Vizayanagaram conlest were arranged round the 
Hall, For the Major Tournament clocks had been provided, each pair 
working on a balance, so that when one player's clock was stopped his 
opponent's was set in motion automatically, The device was the inven- 
tion of Mr. Wilson, of Manchester, and answered admirably its intended 
purpose, In previous Tournaments complaints were often made that a 
player's clock, either from inattention or design, was not set going imme- 
diately that his opponent had made his move. He was constantly recording 
the game, looking for the paper, lighting a cigar, or absent from the board 
when his clock ought to have been set in motion, and the result was that 
the sum of the time occupied by the two players never came up to that 
really occupied in the game. With the arrangement of the balanced pair 
of clocks no finessing was possible, and if a player were promenading the 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

THE TOURNAMENT. XXxiil 

Hall when his clock had been set in motion he paid the penalty of his self- 
imposed loss of time. As a result, at the close of a game, or at the 
adjournment, the sum of the time indicated on the clecks of the two 
players corresponded accurately with that shown on the Hall clock to have 
been spent on the game. The rigid accuracy of the automatic movement 
may sometimes have provoked an inattentive player, but the justice of 
the system was felt and its advantages acknowledged by all the players 
engaged. 

The attendance of the member of the Playing Committee to start the 
competitors at the fixed hour, to set in motion the clock of any player not 
present to time, to receive the recorded move at the hour for adjourn- 
ment, and to record accurately the time spent by each player as shown by 
their clocks up to that period, added to the regularity of their proceedings, 
aud prevented the possibility of dispute on such matters. It should be 
seaba here that, as was to be anticipated in the case of such practised 
opponents, with the exception of some reference on the disputed question 
of an end-game and the 50-move law, the services of the member of the 
Playing Committee as Umpire in the case of dispute were never 
ealled for in the Major Tvuurnament, and with most rare exceptions 
these important encounters were conducted throughout with courtesy and 
good-temper. 

The interest of the public never flagged, and was increased by the 
notices in the public Press, which had never before reported with such regu- 
larity and correctness the proceedings of a Chess Tournament. The 
Standard and Morning Post newspapers were the first to give daily 
detailed reports, and to publish the most interesting games in their 
columns. Their example was speedily followed by the Times and Morning 
Advertiser, while the evening aoe reported regularly the progress of the 
play. A weekly analysis in the Field of every contest of any interest, with 
sketches of a lighter character descriptive of the play in Society and other 
weekly papers, kept up the public interest, so that the Victoria Hall was well 
attended with spectators to the very close of the struggle, and the Com- 
mittee were amply rewarded for their enterprise in securing that noble room 
for the Tournament, the greater portion of the rent being paid by the receipts 
from the public. As soon as morning play ceased in the Vizayanagaram 
Tournament the Director of Play took advantage of the holiday given for 
the Derby Day to utilise the space thus afforded by erecting platforms with 
raised rows of seats from which the view of any particular game could be 
obtained by a large number of spectators without crowding round the ropes, 
and on the occasion of the second contest between Zukertort and Steinitz 
the advantage of the new arrangement was clearly exhibited, when upwards 
of one hundred spectators were enabled to watch every move of the important 
game in which all their interests were absorbed. 

It would be useless and wearisome to go through all the incidents of 
the struggle. On the opening day, Zukertort, by his brilliant victory over 
Tehigorin, showed that he was in form, and satisfied his friends that if his 
health, which had even rendered doubtful his participation in the Tourna- 
ment, were not to break down, he would take his own part in the struggle 
for the championship. 

The daabie defeat of his great rival Steinitz early in the contest, through 
his venturesome adoption of his own opening (in which he had been successful 
on the first day against Winawer), and refusal to accept the draw, which in 

that opening can apparently be forced by the defence within ten moves, was 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

xxiv LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

the most notable incident, and added greatly to Zukertort’s chances of 
ultimate success. 

At the close of the first round, Zukertort, who had lost only one game, 
and that by a palpable blunder, to Steinitz, had taken so commanding a lead, 
amounting to 2} games, or five points, over Mason, who was then second, 
that except in the case of an utter collapse, which in his state of health was 
always possible, the destination of the first prize seemed almost certain. 
The contest for the second prize would evidently be most close, as Mason 
stood with a score of 9} ; Steinitz and Tchigorin, 9; Blackburne, 8}; and 
Bird and Winawer, 7 each. 

Up to this point Steinitz had certainly not played up to his best form : 
he was indebted to good fortune for his success over Zukertort. He had 
beeu defeated twice by inferior players owing to his adoption of an opening 
which he had henceforward to discard ; he had lost one game to Blackburne 
by unquestionably weak play, and another to Rosenthal in which, though by 
no means disgraced, he had certainly been outplayed by his antagonist. 
Such was, however, the general confidence in his Chess genius and staying 
power that few doubted that he would secure the second place, or the first 
one should Zukertort’s victorious career be stopped by that unhappy break- 
down in his health and nerves of which all his friends were fearful. 

It was clear that Mason and Blackburne would have a close struggle for 
supremacy, and all hoped that Mr. Bird, whose uniform courtesy to all and 
equanimity alike in victory und defeat had made him a general favourite, 
would come out with the high honours his chivalrous play deserved. 

Early in the second round Mr, Skipworth retired from the contest. He 
had only entered the Tournament for the pleasure of contending with the 

t masters, and had shown by his tenacity and general soundness 
of play that, if outmatched, he was no unworthy antagonist for the best, 
and that while there is a perceptible difference there is no impassable gulf 
that separates the highest amateur form from that of the great masters. 
The labour was, however, too great for him, and his health gave way under 
the strain. Under his doctor's orders he was compelled to retire after 
playing two games in the second round, the weakness of which showed how 
completely he had given way under the mental stress he had undergone. 
Mr. Sellman was in very bad health when he entered, but he seemed to 
improve in spirits as his task went on, and though doubtlessly he could 
not do himself full justice, he struggled manfully on, and was rewarded at 
the close by winning a game from the champion, which, though not worthy 
of Zukertort, was certainly admirably played by the victor. 

As the second round went on it became clear that Zukertort would 
maintain his Hayat of the first round, which became almost a certainty 
when, after eight hours’ play, he defeated his most formidable antagonist, 
Steinitz, on the 7th June, in one of the most scientific games, as played 
by both = throughout the Tournament. In the following week he 
defeated Winawer and Blackburne, when more than a week before the 
termination of the Tournament it became impossible for any other com- 
petitor to equal his score. He added one more achievement to his seroll of 
victories by defeating Rosenthal, when the long-dreaded breakdown took 

lace. It was well known to his friends for the last ten days, while he had 

n completing the roll of the successive victories with which his second 
round had opened, that he had been compelled to drench himself nightly 
with a most virulent poison to keep up his failing energies to the mark. 
But Nature would not submit to any such dictation, and at last the long- 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

THE TOURNAMENT. XXV 

threatened breakdown occurred, fortunately when it was too late to deprive 
the champion of the Tournament of his well-merited honours. In his game 
with Captain Mackenzie, having in a defence to the Ruy Lopez obtained an 
absolute winning position, Zukertort, under the extraordinary hallucination 
that he had already doubled his Rooks on the Queen's file, went in for what 
he believed to be an immediately winning combination, which actually 
resulted in the loss of a Rook and Bishop, and necessitated the instant 
abandonment of the game. 

On the following two days the champion was successively defeated by 
the two weakest players in the Tournament, and while heartily congra- 
tulating them on the satisfaction they must have felt at so unexpected an 
occurrence, it is impossible to deny that on each occasion Zukertort per- 
formed most artistically the Japanese happy despatch, and defeated himself 
with somewhat of the like pertinacity with which he had previously defeated 
others. To bis friends this was a mortifying culmination of an otherwise 
magnificent performance, from the merits of which it detracts in no way, as 
with shattered nerves and temporary Chess-blindness it was the shadow of 
Zukertort that encountered these defeats. 

Until this breakdown Zukertort had achieved a record hitherto un- 
attained in the annals of Chess Tournaments by winning twenty-two games 
to one defeat, and had shown in the performanco that combination of bril- 
liancy, energy, and accuracy which, against such competitors, could alone 
have attained such a result. His game against Blackburne in the first 
round is the finest that has been played in the time of the present genera- 
tion of Chess-players, and proves, if any such proof be wanting, that 
magnificent combination is superior to that dull Chess strategy which risks 
no atiack and struggles pertinaciously to obtain an extra Pawn on the 
Queen’s side against the end-game. The stratagem is as sound as it is 
brilliant, and when Zukertort played his R to K 3 he had the whole com- 
bination, twelve moves deep, clearly in his mind—a combination not to be 
surpassed in all the recorded games of the brilliant masters of the past, 
Morphy and Anderssen. Zukertort enrols himself in the modern school of 
strategy vereue combination, but genius will claim its own, and a brilliant 
Chess gem of this description will always rouse the enthusiasm of the 
devotees of the game beyond the exhibition of the highest Chess strategy 
ever witnessed. There was no such perfect specimen in the second round, 
yet the game against Englisch is singularly brilliant, though marred by a 
blot towards the finish, and only the most correct judgment could foresee 
the ultimate reward for the piece apparently sacrificed in that game with 
0 little immediate prospect of a return, The second game with Steinitz is 
an ulmost perfect specimen of modern Chess, though the transposition of 
two of Steinitz’s moves would appear to have insured the draw. The 
pertinacity with which Zukertort would be content with nothing short of 
victory is especially shown in his second game with Noa, the deciding game 
with Winawer in the second round, and with Englisch in the first, where by his 
conduct of the end-game Zukertort routed the critics, who in each case con- 
tended that a draw only was possible. Throughout these games it may 
fairly be said that Zukertort rarely indulged in unnecessary risks (his first 
game with Mason is certainly an exception), and yet more rarely omitted 
the opportunity for a brilliant stroke when offered. Above all, he played 
persistently fo win, while most of his competitors were content to play fora 
draw, and only go in for victory through their opponent’s blunder. It would 
have been a melancholy result if such tactics had secured the highest prize. 

e 

ir al ron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Xxvi LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Steinitz, who secured the second prize, also played resolutely to win 
throughout the contest, in which, towards the end, his staying power brought 
him quite back to his old form. In the second round he was again, singu- 
larly enough, defeated by Rosenthal and Tchigorin, but the game played by 
the former is a really brilliant example of the French school of Chess, and 
if not sound throughout, the play was exceptionally fine and attacking, 
though the mortification must have been extreme for Steinitz to have an 
absolutely won game snatched from him in such a manner, especially when 
it seemed to imperil his chance for the second prize. He rallied from the 
defeat with characteristic courage, and not losing another game, by his 
successive victories over Blackburne, Mason, and Mackenzie secured that 
position by a decisive majority. 

The play of Blackburne will be found somewhat deficient in energy; as a 
general rule he played essentially for safety, and contenting himself generally 
with safe exchanges in the middle game, played chiefly to obtain the oppor- 
tunity of showing that skill in the end-game for which he is distinguished. 
Such tactics are never likely to obtain the highest honours amongst first- 
class competitors, though they are now becoming too general in Tournament 
play. His game with Noa in the first round is a fair example of this system, 
After exchanging most of the pieces, both parties simply shifted about 
their remaining men, apparently without object, for tweuty moves or more, 
and Noa doubtless expected that the customary draw would ere long be 
offered or accepted. Blackburne was, however, waiting fora blunder. At 
last Noa, apparently wearied of inaction, made the false move long looked 
for, on which Blackburne at once pounced, and very soon obtained the 
victory, His first game with Steinitz is certainly an example of successful 
attack, but, as has been already remarked, it was won through a rare 
instance of really weak play by that great master. I think that the final 
game with Bird in the second round is the best example of Blackburne’s 
skill which this Tournament affords. Through the inherent weakness of 
the opening adopted by his antagonist he obtained an unquestionable 
advantage, which he pressed home to the finish with undeniable energy and 
ingenious resource. 

Tchigorin, the winner of the fourth prize, ought to have a great Chess 
future before him. He has not yet the experience of Zukertort and Steinitz, 
but he possesses that energy which is requisite to make a great master, and 
throughout the Tournament he played persistently to win and not to draw 
his games, and happily obtained his deserved reward. 

Englisch, Mason, Mackenzie, and Winawer adopted the approved tactics 
of modern Tournament play. These players, with Blackburne and Rosenthal, 
made an extraordinary number of drawn games, among which will be found 
many where the force and position are varies equal, but where a player 
determined to win would regard the contest as about to commence in earnest. 
The natural desire of men engaged daily in a mental struggle to get some 
rest is the only excuse that can be offered for this practice, which can be 
compared only to two men standing up to fight determined not to hit one 
another. Englisch, Mason, and Mackenzie tied for the filth, sixth, and seventh 
prizes, and if the Committee, in accordance with the programme, had com- 
pelled them to play off the tie in a pool they would erat have gone on 
drawing games against one another to all eternity. Mason's best game in 
the Tournament is his first against ZukertoM, where, strange to say, he 
refused more than one opportunity of drawing the game. Englisch’s best 
games, I think, are his victories over Steinitz in the first round, where he 

Iniginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

ss 

THE TOURNAMENT, xxvn 

showed the unsoundness of that master’s previously favourite opening, and 
his defeat of Tchigorin in a Sicilian opening, which is a model of correct 
and forcible play. His pertinacious resistance in all his games with 
Zukertort proves the truth of the assertion that he is very hard to beat. 
Mackenzie's game with Mason in the second round is a favourable specimen 
of that master’s quiet and correct play. 

The play of Rosenthal, who only secured the Consolation Prize offered 
by Baron Kolisch, is of a most inconsistent order, characterised as it was 
by singular energy at times, and the most — lassitude; the highest 
strength and inexplicable weakness. Probably he suffered more than any 
competitor, except Winawer, from the operation of Rule VIII. regarding 
drawn games, for he was always in arrears, and never obtained that rest 
from the strain of daily battle which his feeble physique required. The four 
games which he contested with Steinitz are alone sufficient to sustain the 
reputation of the Paris champion, and the first game of the first round with 
Winawer is in itself an example how well and how badly he could play. 
To a certain point there is hardly a better-played game in the Tournament, 
when there oceur oversights that would be astounding in a mazetfe. For 
his last game in the second round with Steinitz he deservedly carried 
off the prize for the most brilliant game in this round, offered by Howard 
Taylor, Esq.,and this distinction will be peculiarly agreeable to the members 
of the Paris Cercle, where Rosenthal is acknowledged to be their leading 
master, 

Regarding the prize in question it should be stated that the adjudication 
was left by the donor in the hands of the Earl of Dartrey, and at his request 
I laid before our President half-a-dozen games played in that round which 
appeared to me most worthy of the honour. The games I placed before his 
lordship for adjudication wera—l. The final game between Rosenthal and 
Steinitz; 2. Steinitz against Winawer; 3. Zukertort against Englisch ; 
4. Mackenzie against Mason; 5. Sellman against Zukertort; and at 
Mr. Mortimer's request his game against Zukertort was also brought into 
the competition. ‘he prize, it must be remembered, was not for the best 
played but for the most brilliant game in the round, and after two days’ 
consideration Lord Dartrey awarded it to the game won by Rosenthal of 
Steinitz. As Chess brilliancy is almost synonymous with sacrifice, the play 
in this game, commencing with the 40th move, is an unquestionable example 
of brillianey of the highest order. 

After Rosenthal, I should say that Winawer suffered most from 
Rule VIIL., requiring draws to be played over again, not from physical 
weakness as in Rosenthal’s case, but from his style of play, which, like 
Englisch’s, is essentially of a drawing character, and, like Blackburne’s, 
looks especially to mastery in the end-game. In the present Tournament 
he certainly disappointed expectation, but the finish of his game with 
Englisch in the first round is of the highest order of Chess, and worthy of 
the reputation of the master who tied with Zukertort in Paris and Steinitz 
in Vienna. It is impossible to approve of his manner of conducting his 
openings. In opposition to the practice of all the other masters he seeks 
for opportunities to change off his Bishops for his opponent’s Knights, and 
though with a single Knight he will sometimes achieve an unexpected 
victory, as in his final game with Bird, the general result is a dull game 
and the inevitable draw. 

Mr. Bird is the only other leading master who on this occasion failed 
to obtain a prize, which is the more unfortunate, as, like Zukertort, Steinitz, 

| from 

NIVERSITY 

if 

PRINCETON U 

XXxviil LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

and Tehigorin, he is a bold, energetic player, and played resolutely to win 
throughout the Tournament. His game acainst Zukertort in the second 
round is a fine specimen of the skill of both, and but for one hurried move 
the combination in which Bird sacrificed the exchange should have at least 
secured the draw against the best play. Such a draw would have been the 
most fitting termination to such a game, when both players had played 
resolutely to win throughout, and were foiled by their opponent's strenuous 
resistance. The only kind of draw against which [ venture to raise my 
voice is one for which both players are aiming as their proudest achievement 
from the very commencement of the game. 

Mr. Bird, as is known to all, has peculiar ideas on the openings; he 
believes in a form of the Giuoco for the attack which is in fact the same 
opening as the Evans refused, supposed by all other masters to be favourable 
for the defence, He certainly won a fine game at this opening from 
Rosenthal, and in his hands exceptional attacks and defences often turn out 
suecessful. He lelieves in the validity of P to K B 4 in the close opening, 
which is rejected by both Steinitz and Zukertort as the worst form of the 
close giume. I attribute his want of success in the present Tournament 
chiefly to what I consider vagaries of this description, but for which he 
would more likely Lave come out third than tenth. When, however, all the 
masters cngaged, after the two leaders, show such singular equality of 
strength, any one of them might be third to-day and tenth in another like 
contest, and when such equality exists it is likely enough that cautious play, 
and a careful avoidance of defeut rather than a struggle for victory, may 
secure the advantage. 

The remaining competitors in the Major Tournament were strong 
amateurs who joined in it for the pleasure of contending with masters, 
rather than with any hope of carrying off a prize. Of these Dr. Noa was 
unquestionably the strongest, and his victory over Tehigorin, after losing the 
exchange, was a specimen of fine Chess of whieh any master in the Tourna- 
ment might have been proud. 

The official score is given on the opposite page. 

Tt remains only to add the table of caleulations, under which the 
Lowenthal Consolation Prize was divided amongst the unsuccessful com- 
petitors :— 

Marks, £4, 
Bird . . 17, 14, 16, 6, 15, 13, 6, 16. = 103—11 15 
Mortimer . 3, 16, 22, ; c > = 41— 415 
Noa . . 24, 79, 6, 15, 64, 3, 16, 13. : = 91—10 5 
Sellman . 77, 6, 93,15, 3, 22. . ° .= 6— 7 5 
Skipworth , 3, 9!, 63 = 19. 2 9 

Winawer . 12, 8!, 13, 152, 15}, 6, 91, 71, 13, 6,16 = 123 —14 0 

The analytical results of the Tournament are of no great importance. 
The utter unsoundness of the Steinitz Gambit for froth ag was proved, at 
all events, by the confession of the inventor, who after two defeats in 
endeavouring to avoid the draw, did not again venture on his favourite 
opening. No other experiments were tried. Zukertort by his practice 
showed his belief that the defence has beaten the attack in all open games, 
by always as second ies playing P to K 4 in reply to P to K 4, except the 
Sicilian, which he played, and unnecessarily lost to Sellman. As first player 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

NXLX 

TILK TOURNAMENT. 

oy 
l 

aaa teal 
ihe ¢ |0 
fo $ its 
6 (9 (fe 
aI og | 2 
et | 9 4 
*tuadg er] aa 

MMAg Foy 

09 f6 

TS FCT rot i S 

TUM fet fs 
"YHOOT | OT A 
| 
“PNUL for} s fs 
' | 
“puovs = 6 | OT | 6 
taal), Gt ol 
ea xt eS 
3 | & 
O21 - = 
e\s 
a | & 

‘WWaagN dO UAduO AHL NI SGNQMOU OML AHL AO TXOOS 'TYNIA 

—|ot ot loa 

a ‘Od 
10. ad 
[to ia To 

OT/OO0 
TT 

{_— 
tip tt TT 00 
hee 11] tp our ro? 
| 

Tip 11) Tor 10 OP 
|| 

| It tip tp tier 

| 

| 

OP 

Tepype 

TT! OTP] OTP 

| 

<<, 

To) 00 OFO TO 

TOP, 00 OPT Ot? To) OPT,/O0°'00 

wi ad ot 

pale TPopPiPP opPL 

oT ‘to cvoton 00 por 
POP cote 00 

Me 

-| OPT i iaihl vice OPO 070) 00. 

| 
U1 Ute whee tet rP To po ATP IO) — |fPPipP\o0| TTP 00, ‘aie 
| \ 
| 

vale 11? TL toP to tptrr cope FPP tee — loP1 vn 
‘1 Ot tProtrot| ot ah ag Tt | po) —| ot Tr 0R0 
TI|TI, LLP TPULPOWPiPPy PIP ‘TPT 00P opt To OT 007 
It fi tI TPT L322 oporter Il |tPPO} 00) OL |— oT 

er tt wt 5 TTI TUTHOTR It 

OSU 

*OLZMO YOU 

| 

LL} OPT|ILPPIPt tteP|to| — 

— nh N 

Fi e| fle\e 
e eo . | 3.) 8 
&)] 8) & | fis 
. s ’ - 
; z : 

| 
| 

| | 
por 00} 00P\/00 00. 00 00| 00/00 00 Meomdyys “ef VA" 
00 0000P 00] 00 oop oop int 
OPO! OTP — oPiPy, OOP eee 

‘TOP? OT ofpp, OPO] 00 TH? OPO 020 00) 

+ aamtqsoyy “¢ 
* anmpag “"V 
/ + gap ag 
ee tod: ke | 

* daa AA 'S 

* eypmaroy *§ 
uoseyy ‘ser 
OIZUAYONIY "FY *OF) 
* wpsydog “qf 

* nO IT, 
BURL OLUts Gis 5 ans 

* 2UIUIAIS UM 
wowaNZ “HS 

sump tag = F 
‘tap pug sowey py 
yor 0 

‘tom = 

Jriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

i 

XXX LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

he generally adopted some form of the close game, either 1 Kt to K B 3, 
1PtoK 3,1PtoQ4, or 1 PtoQ B4, but never 1 PtoK B4. It was 
not through fear of the French Game that he avoided 1 P to K 4 when first 
player, but evidently from his belief in the superiority of the defence in all 
royal openings. He certainly adopted the Four Knights’ opening in his first 
game with Steinitz, doubtless from his confidence that that master would 
play his own defence of P to K Kt 3, which Zukertort believed to be weak, 
and against which he certainly secured a decided superiority. 

Steinitz, both as first and second player, played P to K 4 throughout, 
unless his opponent as first player had furced on him a close game. When 
beaten out of his own opening he adopted the Two Knights’ or the Ruy 
Lopez. He never refused any opening his opponent might offer. 

Blackburne, as first player, moved generally P to K 4, and if possible 
played his favourite Giuoco, and more rarely the Scotch Gambit. As second 
oy he always adopted the French Game in reply to P to K 4. Mason, 

inawer, and Noa also regularly played this dull opening, the frequent 
repetition of which in the Tournament games will be found sadly mono- 
tonous. ‘The almost equally dull Ruy Lopez was chosen as the next favourite 
opening. The masters, in fact, avoided book openings against each other ; 
they had too profound a respect for each other’s knowledge of the latest 
theory to risk falling into any variation where patient rage fee might have 
discovered an irresistible way to victory. Tchigorin played a King’s 
Gambit once against Sellman, the Evans against Steinitz, Mortimer, and 
Zukertort ; the two former accepted the opening, and lost ; Zukertort, who 
is more profoundly acequainted with the opening than any living master, 
played to the score, saa having the leading place at the time, refused the 
Gambit by retiring the B to Kt 3, which is known to insure a slight advan- 
tage in position. Bird also played an Evans against Steinitz, and lost ; 
Zukertort finally played it with a like result against Mortimer, having, as 
his analysis shows, the opportunity of winning for several moves in 
succession, It would appear, therefore, that Zukertort believes that the 
Evans, when accepted, gives an advantage to the opening player, and an 
advantage to the defence whev refused ; and on this ground he only offered 
it to the weakest player in the Tournament, despite his complete mastery of 
all its intricacies. 

With the exception possibly of a more complete study of the close 
game, as played by the first player, the theory of the game will be advanced 
but little by this Tournament; Steinitz believes thoroughly in his own con- 
tinuation of P to K 5 against the French Defence, and though he won a 
game at this opening against Blackburne, there was nothing conclusive as to 
the merits of the opening, as the victory was won in the middle game from 
a position of perfect equality. 

The score of the Vizayanagaram Tournament is given on the opposite page. 

The first prize was carried off by Herr Von Bardeleben, a distinguished 
amateur of Berlin, who only lost one game throughout the contest to 
Mr. Gattie, and that when his position as holder of the first prize was already 
secured, This, against so many strong competitors, was an excellent per- 
formance, and his play throughout was vigorous and accurate. Mr. Fisher, 
a well-known English provincial player, ran a very close second, the result 
of cautious, careful play, and well represented the players of the Counties 
Chess Association, at whose meetings he is a regular competitor. In many 
of his games Mr. MacDonnell played with his well-known strength, and his 
victories over Messrs, Gunsberg and Piper were fine specimens of Chess, and 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

XXX1 

THE TOURNAMENT. 

OFFICIAL SCORE OF THE VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 

"89M | TOS HHH Ae ROR RRR OCH RO ROR | 

sash, | SD Ot tt tt eH OS OnStar | © 

| “qangqiede A | FSSC ROR A On et et ONS Ope | 

vaaynny | He COSC RH OMRON OCOD OOO |-—mOO 

} 
“UoRqYY | MOOR HHA RH HOH eA ORS | Soe 

“LOTT | FH On AA HOR ROR | aR 

*aadiy | A SOSCOS SH Oem HOD | COMA 

- "uot | FR CHAR BAe eee eee pd dete 
—_—_—_—_ 

*ULEILMANT | HA One One eet ae | OF CORN Rm 

‘tpang, | ROCOMDSCHHOHOHOHm| HOOOCHOHS 

‘anpuryy | AAS Oda Onan | moO OmDOHO OS 

qPmoqey | Haroon SSoHOOOSO | Sooo OCH OMS 

“pao'T | MO SOR SCA RCH Ons [HOR OOH OCS HHEHS 

| ‘Auspury | HOt OOM Ont | On OOOO RR Oe 

| wy | AH OCHO mMoHHS |CoHsSHOOSOOCOHSS 

*ysaqmue'T | HD OR HOODOO James oscooRnoomeos 

“aya, | AOOCCH OCR | HOR SOH OH OSH HOHOSOS 

‘diss0pp | AS On One | HH OOHOD OCOD OCOMS 

‘Brquap | ma cooon | cop SC OHH OHOSOSmMIOS 

“Op | CHO S| CHR OH OR OOM OOOHSS 

“qaniqaz | ey el | HR HH eH ROR OR OOM ORO 

ads oh § 

— 

ASOSS |SOOHOSSCSCSCSOOO MOSH OSCHOSS 

omg | HOS | HOR Rm On OOM SOHHOO 

du % 

tio Z 

“oO ee Se RES nee we Se s"s * & Sa ght (88s 10r 16 
3 “ Ha 3 e . =| § 
Seba yess ois -2 isgih wel “2 
Eee asssegsace basses issest? 
sesgecdeee sd eaaseaeckadesce 

{ Pe Original from 

Qit PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

XXXii LONDON CHESS TOURNAMEN'. 

quite worthy of his reputation. Messrs. Ranken, Lord, and some others 
did not play throughout so well as might have been expected from them, but 
on the whole the play in this Tournament was good, and several of the 
younger players, notably Messrs. Lambert, Lee, Piper, Gattie, and 
Vansittart of Rome, showed in many of their games a Chess power which 
affords much prowise for the future of English amateur strength. 

THE BANQUET. 

Tt had been determined by the Committee that the Banquet in con- 
nection with the Tournament should be held before the conclusion of the 
first round, and on the 19th May about seventy gentlemen sat down to 
dinner at the Criterion, under the presidency of the Earl of Dartrey, in 
the absence of the Duke of Albany, whose engagements unfortunately 
precluded his attendance. The accompanying menu and toast-list describes 
the fare and the programme on this occasion, when all the players who took 
part in the Major Tournament were present as guests of the Committee. 

MENU. 
Winea. Hors-d’auvres. 
Manzanilla. Potages. 
Consommé aux Laitues Farcies. Créme d’Asperges. 

. Poissons. 

Tlockheimer,. 
meee Saumon, Sauces Génevoise ct Hollanduise. 
Chablis. Coéiclettes d'Homard, Sauce Riche. 

Batréva. 

Pommery and Ris de Veau a la Printanier. 

Greno. Noisettes de Moutonala Chasseur. Pommes Nouvelles, 
Ruinart ' ‘ orange , 
Pire et Fils, Filet Piqué A la Portugaise, 
1874. Riti. 
Poulet de Grains. Caneton. 
Margaux. Pommes Paille. Salade Frangaise. 
Ligue. 
Asperges, Sauce au Beurre, 
Dessert Wines. Enirewicts, 

Amontillado, 
Old Port. 
Chiiteau Pomys, 
1870. 

Péches Farcies aux Macarons. 
Gelcée aux Fraises. Petits Fours. 
Ice Pudding. 
Dessert. Coffee, 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

THE BANQUET. XXXili 

TOASTS. 

“The Queen.” 

“Tho Royal Family and Duke of Albany.” 
“The Continental Competitors in the Major Tournament.” 
“The American Competitors.” 

“The English Competitors,” 

“The Players in the Vizayanagaram Tournament.” 
“The Managing Committee and Mr. Lewis.” 
“Tho Honorary Secretary.” 

“The Director of Play.” 

“The Daily Press.” 

“The President.” 

When the cloth was removed, the noble Caarrman, after giving the 
toast of The Queen,” in proposing that of “The Royal Family,” alluded 
specially to the Duke of Albany, the interest displayed by him in the 

ournament, and the regret felt by all at his inability to preside over them 
that evening. 

In proposing ‘The Health of the Continental Competitors” he spoke as 
follows :— 

“*Gentlemen,—Before announcing the next toast I must take this 
opportunity of congratulating you on the success which has attended the 
opening and progress of the Tournament, for it is indeed a great success, 
whether we consider the numbers who have attended it, the distinguished 
character of the players who have taken the field, or the amount of the 
prize-list. I suppose in the annals of the Chess world there never was a 
more attractive programme put forward, and to enable this to be done we 
were much indebted to the liberality, not only of the Chess-playing com- 
munity of the United Kingdom, but also of more distant parts of the 
Empire. India in particular has come forward most nobly, and some 
magnificent contributions from Indian Princes—I may especially name the 
Maharaja of Travancore and the Rajah of Vizayanagaram—deserve our 
most honourable notice. The keen interest taken by the public in tho 
Chess Tournament, as manifested in the large number of spectators who 
have daily crowded our Hall, must be to all Chess-players a source of 
great satisfaction, but more especially to the masters themselves, as no 
more flattering tribute could be paid to their skill than the anxiety of 
outsiders to witness their close contests and derive instruction from them, 
and as an old Chess-player 1 have much pleasure in bearing testimony 
myself to the great profit as well as pleasure to be derived from a study of 
the ere already played. And now, gentlemen, with regard to the toast 
which I have the honour next to submit to you I may remark that one of 
the most pleasing results of these gatherings of the Chess world is that 
we have an opportunity of making the acquaintance of so many foreign 
Chess-players, and of interchanging ideas with them, no doubt with mutual 
advantage, and I sincerely hope that our foreign friends have derived as 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

XXxiv LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

much pleasure and satisfaction from their visit to Loudon as wo have in 
welcoming them here. The toast comprises the Continental players. 

“M. Rosenthal is an old friend of ours. This is by no means his first 
visit to London, and we are delighted to see him back again, and I have 
no doubt he will make a gallant struggle for the honour of France and 
the well-known Cercle des Echecs. The other gentlemen are not so well 
oe in this country, but we hope soon to be better acyuainted with 
them, 

* Poland has sent us Herr Winawer, whose great reputation has pre- 
ceeded him; and the Austro-Hungarian Empire is well represented by two 
such distinguished players as Dr. Noa and Herr Englisch. Last, but not 
least, comes M. Tchigorin, and if I may venture to augur from the com- 
mencement of the play he will not return home without having made his 
mark at the Tournament, and he will certainly have greatly contributed 
to spread the fame of Russian Chess-players throughout the world,” 

To this toast M. Rosentuan spoke, in reply, in the French language, 
and feelingly expressed his gratitude for the warmth of his welcome in 
English Chess circles, his respect for which had determined him to take 
a part in the London Tournament as svon as it was announced, 

Mr. Durry, in proposing the health of the American competitors, 
Messrs. Mackenzie, Mason, and Sellman, said that every Englishman would 
honour the representatives of a country which had given Morphy to the 
Chess world. 

Captain Mackenzie, in reply, alluded to the fact that neither Mr. 
Mason nor himself were born Americans, while Mr. Mortimer was so, and 
he called on him consequently to relieve him of a task for which he felt 
himself least fitted. 

Mr. Mortimer humorously acknowledged that he was a true-born 
Yankee, while two of the Chess American representatives were Scotch and 
Irish. He regretted his want of success so far, but he promised the 
audience that he would not think of retiring, would fight it out to the 
bitter end, and he hoped he would yet rake up a game or two before the 
close of the second round. 

Colonel Srzrtine proposed the health of the English Competitors in the 
Tournament, Messrs. Blackburne, Bird, Mortimer, Skipworth, Steinitz, and 
Zukertort. He said that such a list of names showed the wonderful 
receptive power of Old England, who claimed as her representatives leadin 
champions from such distant regions, including America, Austria, aad 
Prussia, who were now naturalised British subjects. They were champions 
alike of Old England and the world, After briefly alluding to the feats of 
each, and the previous successes of Steinitz at Vienna, Zukertort at Paris, 
and Blackburne at Berlin, he called on the company to do special honour 
to the veteran Mr. Bird, whom he regarded as the Murat of Chess, and on 
whom he had been directed to call for a reply on behalf of himself and his 
companions. 

Ir. Brap, in reply, spoke as follows :— 

“My Lord, Colonel Sterling, and Gentlemen,—It appears superfluous 
for me to say how deeply I feel the honour of being called upon to respond 
to the toast of the English, or British-born, Chess-players. 

“In returning thanks first for my colleagues, | am sure that I shall but 
feebly express their sentiments when I say that nothing can exceed their 
grateful appreciation of the support given to Chess and Chess-players by 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

THE BANQUET. XXXV 

the originators and subscribers to the great Tournament now ponding, and 
on 80 many previous occasions, 

“The impetus given to Chess already is seen to be of the most remark- 
able character. Whilst studying the convenience and comfort of the players 
to the utmost, our Director of Play, Mr. Rosenbaum, has not been unmindful 
of the business aspect of the affair. Through his ability and tact, as well 
as his liberal and good management, an amount of attention has been 
attracted to the Tournament never accorded to any previous event, in fact, 
quite unprecedented ; and I am sure that all my brother Chess admirers 
aud players will with alacrity join in their warmest and most grateful 
acknowledgments, In considering the origination, promotion, and very 
successful carrying out of this great Congress, one naturally reverts with 
heartfelt thanks to those gentlemen whose efforts at the outset so greatl 
contributed to the grand result attained—viz., Mr. Minchin and Mr. Steel. 
We all owe a debt of gratitude also to Mr. F. H. Lewis and Mr. Cubison 
for their liberal support and judicious management of the arrangements, 
admitted by all to . so eminently satisfactory. We Chess-players do not 
form the most harmonious or tractable body in the world, so the kind 
counsels and guidance of thegentlemen named have been extremely valuable 
to us. There are many other gentlemen on the Committee, notably some 
members of the St. George’s Chess Club, who are well known for their 
readiness on all occasions to give their time and material aid to the cause 
of Chess, and who do it so entirely for love of the game and desire to advance 
its interests that I should fear to offend by even mentioning their names. 

“Por my humble self, as an old player, I feel most sincerely the kind and 
flattering manner in which Colonel Sterling referred to me and my style of 
play. I took part in the London Tournament of 1851, and have for nearly 
forty years participated in contests with the greatest players. Ihave played 
with even success against Anderssen, Harrwitz, Kieseritzky, Lowenthal, and 
Szen, and since the lamented death of Mr. Boden, Iam the only English 
survivor of the last generation of players. My enthusiasm for the game is 
still as great as ever, and if I am not quite so successful in Tournaments as 
many would like me to be, it may be recollected that I play at a time limit 
and under circumstances in these competitions not so favourable to me as 
the conditions which govern ordinary Chess play, The presence of Baron 
Kolisch among us this evening must be most gratifying. To all (including 
myself) who have visited Tournaments abroad it certainly will be especially 
so. We bees recollect his unbounded liberality in the wepore of Chess, 
and his princely hospitality to us all at Vienna in 1875, Paris in 1878, 
Vienna in 1882, and on other occasions too numerous to mention. 

“ His Lordship’s extraordinary courtesy and indulgence at all times in 
presiding over us inspires such confidence that we may be tempted at times 
to exceed convenient limits. I will not, however, trespass further on your 
patience beyond observing that the marvellous spread in the taste for Chess 
must be very gratifying to us all; it is becoming more and more a favourito 
amusement with the humbler classes, and to them it is highly beneficial on 
many grounds. 

“Those who are recognised as masters in Chess are very limited in 
number. By harmonious combination they may still further popularise 
Chess and benefit the whole community, particularly themselves ; their true 
policy is to pull together for the general good. It remains to be seen 
whether we are all sufficiently wise to make the utmost of the golden 
opportunities afforded us through the enterprise and liberality of the 

| fron 

NIVERSITY 

ir 

PRINCETON U 

XXKV1 LONDUN CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

projectors and supporters of the London International Chess Tournament 
of 1883. I beg again to thank you most sinecrely for the honour done to 
my colleagues and myself.” 

The Rev. W. Wayre then proposed the toast of “The Players in tle 
Vizayanngaram Tournament.” He said that this Tourney had been brought 
into the world under difficulties, and had thriven in spite of, perhaps like a 
hardy plant all the more because of, the rough treatment it experienced when 
young. It had been objected to as standing in the way of the Major Tour- 
nament and dividing the publie interest, which ought to be concentrated on 
that alone. It was now abundantly clear that there was room for both, and 
the Minor Tournament stood forth as an acknowledged success. So far from 
giving any cause for jealousy to the competitors in the other Tournament, 
it had been useful to them by keeping down their numbers within manage- 
able limits. It had proved by what slight shades of difference the various 
grades of players were separated from one another. There were players 
in each whose natural place might have been expected beforehand to be in 
the other Tournament. They had not by any means always lost in the one 
case, or always won in the other. For this was another point that the 
Minor Tournament had proved: the glorious uncertainty of Chess might 
almost be compared to the proverbial uncertainty of cricket. They had 
seen Goliaths of Chess descend into the arena, the heroes of many first- 
class Chess encounters, arrayed in the panoply of “ Mars,” and they had 
seen some obscure youth, whom the giant had never dreamt of as a 
dangerous rival, quietly drop a pebble into his forehead and very seriously 
damage his chance of the first prize. With this toast he had great pleasure 
in coupling the name of Mr, MacDonnell, an acknowledged Chess master, 
who had won distinction in contests with the greatest players, and whose 
writings were known to them all, Mr. MacDonnell had been at first among 
the unfavourable critics of the Vizayanagaram Tournament, but he had been 
converted to a belief in it, he now warmly supported it, and finally he had 
entered for it himself, No one could have been selected more appropriately 
than Mr, MacDonnell to respond to this toast, for he was a master of after- 
dinner oratory, who never failed to add to the enjoyment of his hearers. 

The Rey. G. A. MacDonnext, in reply, said that it was a Nemesis for 
him to have to reply to that toast on that occasion, for he had at one time 
opposed the design of this Tournament, had seen the error of his ways, and 
entered for it, had been objected to, he believed, as being too good for the 
contest, and had positively been beaten. Much as he objected to the 
system of making excuses for defeat, he had an excellent excuse on this 
occasion, for be bad been beaten through his kindness of heart and too 
great generosity. In watching the countenances of those engaged he could 
see by the length of their features the agonies oceasioned by various grades 
of loss, from petty annoyance when a Pawn was stolen, through gradations 
at the loss of Kuight or Rook, to the utter despair raised by the loss of 
Queen, or unexpected mate. He could not find it in himself to increase 
such harrowing sufferings, and he had, therefore, resolutely cleeted to be 
beaten, In the name of all the players engaged he beyyed, however, to 
express his warmest thanks to the generous donor who bad given the prizes 
for this Tournament, the Maharaja of Vizayanagaram. 

The Rev. A. B. Sxtpwortu proposed the toast of “The Managing Com- 
mittee, and Mr Lewis, their Chairman,” in the following terms:— 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

THE BANQUET. XXXVil 

“My Lord and Gentlemen,—I must ask you to allow me a moment 
or two for a brief personal preface to the toast placed in my hands. Deco. 
rated as I am at the present time with the rosette of the Master Tourna- 
ment, my position, I feel, requires some apology or explanation, Described 
as I have been (and rightly in a great measure) in one of the daily papers 
as living in a country district where Chess is not cultivated, and consequently 
seldom doing battle over the Chessboard, it might seem to some a matter 
of presumption my having ventured to enter the International Tournament 
along with the champions of the world. It was, however, I beg to say, with 
no foolish idea of carrying off the highest honours of the Tournament in 
which I had become a competitor, but merely that I might purchase expe- 
rience in the very best school. It may be true I had an eye to a consolation 
prize, or even a hankering after one of the lowest seore prizes, but I scarcely 
think that such ambition would be open to censure. I would, moreover, go 
a step further and say I cannot but feel that Ihave already obtained a prize, 
and without depriving any one else of one—the prize I mean is the 
lasting satisfuction afforded me in having played and won some good games 
in the Tournament.- Luse the word ‘ good’ because I would not be in 
any way uncomplimentary to the masters in considering that any game won 
from them could be scored otherwise than by good play! I pass on now to 
the toast which has been placed in my bands—that of ‘The Managing 
Committee of the London International Tournament.’ The task would 
seem to be an easy one, for every arrangement has been, without cxaggera- 
tion, a great success. Not unfreyuently, when an organisation is near 
perfection, people are apt te think that there had been no difficulties con- 
nected with the work. It is, however, the very perfection of the Committee's 
work which teils us of their difficulties and responsibilities. It could, for 
instance, have been no easy matter for the Committee to arrive at conelu- 
sions among themselves. When men of ability and zeal met together for 
the carrying out the great work of a grand Tournament it is certain that 
individual minds would run on different lines, and reconciliation of ideas 
could not readily be effected. Presently, however, all this was a fuit 
accompli, aud with the grandest results. I cannot say a word too much in 
favour of the gentlemen forming the Committee, who laboured so 
zealously in the cause of Chess, and for the benefit of Chess-players gene- 
rally rather than for themselves individually, True, indeed, with regard to 
their case are the words of the poet :— 

“* The sced they sow others reap, 
The wealth they find others keep.’ 

Still they are not without some reward—the hearty thanks of Chess- 
players throughout the world! And it must be gratifying to them to learn 
that the interest which this Tournament has created has permeated the 
villages of our land, I live myself in a rather remote viige in Mid- 
Lincolnshire, and I know it to be a fact that the daily scores in this 
Tournament are most eagerly anticipated. I hope the outcome in my own 
and many villages may be the establishing of village Chess Clubs, Let us 
join, as is deserved, in rendering our best thanks to the Committee for their 
great work—lct us drink to their health and happiness, and with all 
the honours.” 

Mr. Lewrs replied as follows :— 

“ My Lord and Gentlemen,—The landatory language in which Mr, Skip- 
worth has proposed this toast, and the gracious manner in which this 

nginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

XXXVil LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

assembly has received it, must be of the highest satisfaction to the governing 
body of this Tournament. I hope I may be permitted to say of my colleagues 
that each has vied with the other in honourable rivalry as to who best and 
most should promote the interests of the Tournament. 

* Qur labours have been, however, materially lightened by the sympa- 
thetic co-operation of our noble Chairman, the advantage of whose personal 
presence we frequently had at our meetings, and to whose combined intelli- 
gence and impartiality in any temporary difficulty we had always the 
privilege to appeal. The sole aim of the Committee has been to make this 
Tournament a model for all time, and I think you will agree with me that, 
whether you consider the amount of the subscriptions, the number and value 
of the prizes, the eminent players who have done us the honour to compete, 
or the order and quality of the play, the aim of the Committee has not fallen 
short of the mark. The Committee resolved, after much discussion, to treat 
drawn games upon an exceptional footing. In the interests of the purity of 
Chess a drawn game no longer scores a half toeach player. This latter event 
does not arise until the players have drawn three consecutive games. The 
effect of this is that two drawn games are dead games, subject only to an 
analytical post-mortem, and relegated to an inquest to be held by some 
coroner of the Chess Press. 

“The Committee initiated, also, the member of the Playing Committee, 
whose duty it is to decide, with autocratic authority, all disputed questions 
of fact. One of the most gratifying features of the Master Tournament 
has been that the position of these officers has been a sinecure. The good 
temper in which the various contests have been conducted is an admirable 
example of the spirit in which competitive Chess should be played, and I 
am proud to say, in honourable testimony of the nobility of teelmg exhibited 
in this Tournament, that frequently the first congratulations have been 
offered to the winner by the vanquished combatant. 

“* My Lord, the pan of victory has not yet sounded, the laurel remains 
in abeyance, and the material rewards are as yet undistributed, but I trust 
that when the time shall have arrived at which the various players reap the 
rewards of their skill and labour the Managing Committee will not in any 
way have forfeited the good opinion which has been expressed of them 
this evening.” 

Dr. Zuxertort said that no task could have been allotted to him by 
their noble Chairman that could have given him more pleasure than to 
propose the health of their Hon, Secretary, to whose long-continued 
exertions the success of the Tournament in every way was so greatly due. 
Wherever organisation was wanted, they could look nowhere more appro- 
priately than to the great Indian Services who were specially trained for 

ublic work, and Mr. Minchin, by his long connection with the Indian 

ivil Service and his present position as Hon. Sec. of the St. George's 
Chess Club, combined all the qualifications necessary for his onerous 
duties. Two little traits had particularly impressed him with Mr. Minchin’s 
fitness for his post. In the first place he had provided himself with an 
alphabetically-marked portfolio, in which he kept all bis correspondence, 
and so at any moment could lay his hands on any paper he required ; in 
the second, when he had once required «a stamp to post a letter, Mr. Minchin 
told him he could only supply him on condition that the stamp was replaced— 
a condition which he had faithfully carried out. He called on the company 
to drink to the health of the Hon. Secretary with the same enthusiasm 
with which he proposed the toast. 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

THE BANQUET. XXX1X 

Mr. Mincury replied as follows :— 

* Lord Dartrey and Gentlemen,—I have to thank you sincerely for the 
kind way in which you have received the toast which was brought before you 
so complimentarily by Dr. Zukertort, whom I am proud to call my friend. He 

been pleased to attribute much of our success to my efforts, but no 
efforts of mine could have attained the end we have achieved had it not 
been for the support of my friends. I should deserve the charge of black 
ingratitude if foremost amongst them I were not to acknowledge here the 
liberality of my fellow-pluymates of the St. George’s Club, who rallied 
round me from the first when I undertook the charge of organising this 
International Tournament, and who by their unprecedented liberality made 
it the assured success which we now see realised. After them my gratitude 
is due to my Indian friends for their munificent donations. It is now 
thirteen years since I left the Indian Service, where the last post I held was that 
of Resident at the Court of Travancore. I had then the pleasure of making 
the acquaintance of H.H. Rama Varma, at that time heir to the throne, 
and who has since succeeded as Maharaja to the sovran, who was one ef the 
dearest friends I made during my Indian service. H.H. Rama Varma, in 
answer to my application, forwarded us a munificent donation, and I can 
ussure you, who know him as one of the most intellectual, highly-educated, 
and public-spirited independent princes in our Eastern Empire, that it is an 
honour to Chess to have him as its patron. The Maharaja of Vizayana- 
garain, who was a lad when I was in India, and remembers me chiefly as his 
father’s friend, is a leading nobleman, and the largest landed proprietor in 
Southern India. When he sent me £200 for the purposes of this Tourna- 
ment, and placed that sum entirely at my disposal, I felt that this princely 
donor deserved to have a Tournament of his own, and though the course I 
adopted was at the time disapproved in many quarters, the success that has 
attended the Vizayanagaram Tournament has, [ think, proved to all that in 
endeavouring to do special honour to my friend I have done no harm to the 
cause of Chess. Besides these princely donations in Southern India, my friend 
Mr. Steel opened a subscription in Calcutta, which was generously responded 
to from the Viceroy downwards through all ranks of Indian society, and 
the result has been that India has supplied £500, or nearly one-third of the 
total subscription to our funds, The movement, therefore, has been not 
only national but truly Imperial. The Colonies of Australia have sent us 
substantial assistance, and in the United Kingdom we have received a 
distinctly national support. Had the movement been confined to the two 
leading Chess Clubs of London—I was going to say of the world—I mean 
the St. George’s and the City of London, who throughout have worked 
hand-in-hand—the movement could not have been called a national one, 
but we have been supported zealously by our provincial brethren. The 
Chess Clubs of Clifton, Liverpool, and Glasgow have been amongst the 
foremost in their help, but from small Clubs of working men I have 
received guineas, made up of shilling subscriptions, which have given me 
as much pleasure as the most munificent subscriptions of wealthy men. I 
say with truth that the movement has been a national one. From the 
Duke of Albany on the steps of the Throne, from peers like our noble 
President, through all classes of the Chess-playing community, down to the 
working men, the little rills have flowed together and made that affluent 
fund from which the prizes in this Tournament are offered. And let no 
one say that I am laying too much stress on the money part of our success. 
The masters of Chess are engaged in a hard pursuit which brings but little 
reward. It is only on such occasions as these that some, and that a most 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

xl LONDON CHE&S TOURNAMENT. 

inadequate, compensation can be offered to them for the genius, the labour, 
and the study ofa life. Tam glad that on this occasion the rewards to be 
obtained are more worthy of acceptance than have generally been offered. 
And remember that they are contending for no mere sordid prize: an object 
worthy of their highest ambition is offered to them, for the winner in this 
contest will, until he is ousted from that position, be the acknowledged 
govran of the world of Chess. Gentlemen, it has been often said that the 
contests of the old Greeks were purer than ours, and that they struggled 
for fame alone. This is not exactly true, and we have details of the old 
Olympie games which show that our modern Chess contests may be not 
unfavourably compared with them, We know that six statues of Zeus 
were prasad ik Olympia out of the fines imposed on competitors for unfair 
proceedings. It is true that they contested there for a crown of oleaster, 
worthless in itself, but the possession brought such advantages that it was 
sought too often by unfair methods, and such methods when detected 
brought on the culprit no nominal punishment, but fines that in their 
amount would afford a modern Chess-player a competence for life. 
Amongst other incidents of Olympic disgrace one Pankratiast has been 
handed down to eternal infamy as a coward for running away on the 
eve of the contest after entering the lists. We have no such instance; all 
our Pankratiasts Lave come forward boldly, though there is amongst them 
one who had a fair excuse for declining the fray—I allude to Mr. Sellman, 
one of our American competitors, who came to me before the Tournament 
began, with illness stamped upon his face, and told me he feared he could 
not go through the ordeal. LI strongly advised him to retire before the 
contest opened, rather than to enter aud abandon it. He said his friends 
at Baltimore would be so disappointed if he did not carry out the contest 
for which he had come to England. He took medical advice, and entered, 
and I have watched him with interest throughout the struggle, and have 
been delighted to see how he has gathered heart, and health, and spirit in 
the stress and turmoil of the fray. I have one other incident from Olympic 
history which may interest you. The stewards who presided over the 
games—they were called the Hellanodikai—were citizens of Elis, and on 
one oceasion they gave the first prize to a fellow-citizen who had come in 
second, passing over an Ambrakiote who was first. He appealed to the 
Senate of Elis, who reversed the unjust decision, and condemned the 
Hellanodikui to erect a bronze statue of the athlete they had wronged, and 
dedicate it to the Zeus of Justice and Hospitality. Geutlemen, if our 
Hellanodikai—we call them members of the Playing Committce—were to 
commit such a patriotic injustice I trust that the victim of their crime may 
be the gallant representative of American Chess, for I am sure you will 
agree with me that Captain Mackenzie’s handsome face and stalwart form 
would be, what our statues rarely are, an ornament to our public ways. 

“I fear that I have kept you too long, and I will only in conclusion say 
that it will be a matter of lifelong pride to me to have been connected with 
an event which will always form an epoch in the history of Chess,” 

Mr, Lewis then rose and said that there was one toast, not entered on 
the official list, which he had obtained the permission of their noble Chair- 
man to propose, and called on them to drink the health of their distinguished 
visitor, the Baron Kolisch, himself a famous master in former times, to 
whose exertions the success of the last meeting at Vienna was mainly due, 
and who, with his usual liberality, had presented them with a Consolation 
Prize on the present oceasion. Baron Kolisch was well known to many of 

Onginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

THE BANQUET. xli 

them from his former visits, and he called on all present to show that he 
was not forgotten. 

The Baron Kontscu, in reply, referred to the pleasure which his old 
visits to the London Chess circle had afforded him, and the friends he had 
made, who were then giants in the land—Staunton, Buckle, Boden, and 
Lowenthal—great names that would live for ever in the history of Chess, 
and whom he was proud to have made his friends. He had come to London 
to witness the present Tournament, in which he took the deepest interest, 
and was delighted with its success. 

Mr. Mrncurn, in proposing the health of “ The Director of Play,” stated 
that if there was one person to whom they all owed a deep debt of 
gratitude, it was Mr. Rosenbaum for the exertions he had taken in carryin 
out all the arrangements connected with the play in that Hall. He ha 
given up all other valuable engagements, and was prepared to devote 
himself for two months to the sole interests of the Tournament, working 
without stint by night and day for the pure love of Chess, and with the 
determination to make this meeting the most perfect in all its details that 
had been ever held. He regarded the competitors in the Tournament as 
under his special care, and devoted himself to do everything for their 
comfort. Mr. Minchin was aware that he had invited them all to attend 
the national holiday of the Derby, and if on that occasion, though Chess- 
players were the most temperate of men, they determined to enjoy them- 
selves in aristocratic fashion, and to be as drunk as lords, he knew that 
Mr. Rosenbaum would look after them with parental solicitude, would 
follow them like a hen running after a brood of ducklings as they sailed 
down the gutter, would take them safe home in cabs, would give them, if 
necessary, a bed in his studio, cocker them up with hock and soda-water, and 
bring them up quite fresh to commence the second round of the Tourna- 
ment on the following Thursday. Mr. Rosenbaum was an artist, and had 
an artist’s failings as well as virtues, which partook in a degree of the female 
nature. He could be easily led, but not driven. In their dealings with 
him he would recommend them to act on the advice of the quaint old poet 
towards his wife :— 

“ Be to her virtues very kind, 
Be to her fanits a little blind, 
And clap your padlock ou her mind.” 

Mr, Rosxnsavm replied as follows :— 

“My Lord and Gentlemen,—When, some weeks before the commence- 
ment of the Tournament, the Committce conferred the honour of the 
office which I now hold upon me, I formed the very erroneous idea as to its 
duties that after the purchase of the necessary material for play and the 
arrangements in this Hall, my appointment would become almost « sinecure. 
The first day’s gathering, however, quickly undeceived me, and convinced 
me that the amount of labour and responsibility attached to my post 
required greater ability and experience than I could bring to bear upon it. 
But it is this want of experience which must plead for me if there are as 
yet many shortcomings, and if I have not given satisfaction to all com- 
petitors. I believe it is not an easy matter to give entire satisfaction, in 
arranging a contest, to forty ordinary gentlemen, and I believe you will 
agtee with me that the difficulty in this instance is not materially reduced 
by the fact that I have to please forty Chess-players. I have, however, to 
express my thanks to all for their kind forbearance, aud especially " the 

| tre 

VERSITY 

PRINCETON UNE 

xlii IONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

master-players whose long experience in these great contests enabled them 
to lighten my labours in their behalf. 

“Tt was my intention to give you some probably interesting statistics 
and incidents characteristic of the unexpected and universal interest this 
movement has awakened even beyond the Chess world; but the time being 
close at hand when the wise pothouse law of this country will force our 
meeting to disperse, I will give you but one illustration of the same. I 
was accosted one afternoon by a gentleman of good proportions, a ruddy 
complexion, and strongly-marked provincial cut. Pointing to my badge 
of office, he said:—‘ Suppose you are in charge of this entertainment?’ 
Iwas. ‘Then will you tell me where is the carpet with the big squares 
and the moving figures?’ I surmised that he had come to the wrong place, 
and that he wanted the living Chess. ‘He did; but wasn’t this Chess?’ 
I replied that this was Chess-play by the greatest living masters. ‘ And 
what are they trying to do, staring at the boards and images?’ ‘ Studying 
their moves, trying to beat each other.’ ‘And how many moves does it 
take to win?’ ‘That depends upon the strength of the defence’ He moved 
about, looking at each master intently; then he came back to me and said, 
pointing to the stalwart figures of Captain Mackenzie and Dr. Noa, ‘I 
know nothing about this game, but I will back them two to give any of the 
rest fifteen moves in a hundred.’ 

“ My Lord and Gentlemen, I thank you sincerely for the honour of in- 
cluding my name among the toasts of the evening, and rest assured I shall 
try my utmost to deserve the eulogium passed upon my humble efforts by 
my friend Minchin, by assisting to bring this great Tournament to a suc- 
cessful issue.” 
we Artuur Gries Puirer spoke as follows to the toast of “ The Daily 

a3” :— 

“My Lord and Gentlemen,—I rise to propose the toast which stands 
next in order on the list, and esteem it fortunate that, owing to the lateness 
of the hour, neither extended remarks nor eloquence will be required to 
eommend to you the toast entrusted to me. I ask you to drink the toast of 
‘The Daily Press,’ and I am instructed especially to bring to your notice 
the names of the Standard, the Times, the Daily News, and the Morning 
Post, which papers, by inserting notices of the proceedings of the Chess 
Tournament, have largely stimulated public interest, and have materially 
added to the receipts by increasing the number of visitors to the Tourna- 
ment Hall. The Standard was, I am told, the first to publish in extenso the 
complete score of one of the games played in the Master Tournament, and 
the other papers named shortly after followed the example so well and 
happily set. 

“And now I will refer to the last International Tournament held in 
London in the year 1862, and to the banquet in Willis’s Rooms, presided 
over by the late Lord Lyttelton, whom your Lordship sat opposite to as 
Vice-Chairman. On that occasion I made a few remarks on the powers of 
the Chess pieces, and I would now point out how clearly the game proves 
itself to be of Eastern origin by the limited powers given to the King, who 
delegates all his authority to his Prime Minister, the Fierz in Persian, 
easily corrupted into Vierge in French, and hence translated Dame and 

een. 

“Tt has always seemed to me that if anything was wanting to prove to 
a European mind the Asiatic origin of the game, that want would be 
supplied by the character and position which the King occupies on the 

nal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

THE BANQUET. xlii 

board; but when not content with always retiring, and leaving to his Prime 
Minister, the Queen, and his other subordinate pieces to bear the burden 
and heat of the day, he goes through the operation called Castling, he seems 
to me to perform the crowning act of pusillanimity. 

“The same idea has been well expressed by the late Lord Lytton in his 
well-known poem called ‘St, Stephen's,’ in which, referring to Irish politics 
of nearly a century ago, he says :— 

*** Bid Mike and Paddy much bewildered know, 
Who would be free themselves must strike the blow. 
Your pence to-day, your liberties next year. 
Evin go bragh! I thank for that cheer. 
The bargain struck, if aught remains to strike, 
‘The blow descends on Paddy and on Mike. 
E'en so a Chess King, castled in his nook, 
Plays out his Pawns, and skulks behind a Rook.’ 

“The lateness of the hour forbids me extending my remarks. I will, there- 
fore, refer again to the gratitude which the managers of this Tournament, 
and all lovers of Chess, must feel to those members of the Daily Press to 
whom I have already referred for the assistance and encouragement which 
they have given to the Tournament; and it is in order properly to give 
expression to that gratitude that I ask you cordially to drink the toast 
of ‘The Daily Press,’ coupling it with the name of the Editor of the 
Standard.” 

In the unavoidable absence of the Editor of the Standard, Mr. Wesz, 
correspondent of the Times, responded with a few well-timed remarks. 

Mr. Custson proposed, as follows, the health of the noble Presi- 
dent :— 

“My Lord Dartrey and Gentlemen,—The clock, now near the hour, 
warns me that if I am to do my duty I must do it now, and I will at once 
perform the chief part of it by announcing that I am privileged to propose 
the health of the Earl of Dartrey, President of the St. George’s Chess Club 
and of the International Chess Association. His reputation, which was 
local, has now become universal. The Committee alone can speak of his 
suaviter in modo, so happily blended with the fortiler in re; but you who now 
enjoy his society, and many here who have been present on similar occasions, 
can judgo how admirably he must have performed his arduous yet pleasing 
duties—arduous because there were warm contests of opinion, and pleasant 
because without any sacrifice of principle he reconciled those who differed 
and united those who were divided. Perhaps you may be inclined to ask— 
indeed I have asked myself—why I am selected for this office? The Inter- 
national Association has placed me in the van when I felt I ought to be in 
the rear. Recently at the hospitable board of a wee patron of Chess, a 
most liberal host, and as an amateur second to none, [ had the honour of 
proposing the health of his wife—Mrs. Hirschfeld. I thought the beat com. 
pliment I could pay her was to praise her husband, and when I spoke of his 
qualities as a man, and his merits as a Chess-player, I saw the bright eye 
beam and the pure cheek flush, and [ said to myself this is a true wife and 
a good woman. When I told my wife—and she is a very excellent wife— 
of the honour conferred upon me, she replied, ‘Of course, my dear, you are 
selected as being the oldest gentleman.’ That cannot apply on this 
occasion, for there are veterans present who in a weight for age race could 
give me a stone and beat me by a head. One thing I have done for Chess 
—I have often reconciled differences and removed difficulties. I was 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

xliv LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

selected by Messrs. Zukertort and Blackburne to arrange their match, and 
everything was settled amicably in twenty minutes, All of you have 
travelled a train; you have noticed between the carriages the round soft 
substances placed to prevent or lessen collision—they are called buffers ; 
they play their part, as I play mine, and in Chess circles I am an amicable 
and animated buffer. Enough, perhaps too much, of myself. Let me call 
on you one and all to rise and do honour to Baron Cremorne, Earl of 
Dartrey: to me the very names are a source of pleasure. In my youth I 
enjoyed the innocent—I emphatically say innocent—and agreeable society 
of Cremorne, in my after years I contemplate with increased pleasure the 
serene dignity of Dartrey, reminding you that the motto of his house is 
‘ Toujours propice.’ I close with an acrostic :— 

* D iscord must end, and jarring strife must cease 
A 8 here we reeognise * Fonjoure propice.’ 
R arely has Motto so expressed the Man. 
*T' onjours propice.” Up, Chessmenu! let our clan 
R exolve to follow whilst he leads the van ; 
FE ach owning kind thoughts course through ev'ry art’ry, 
¥ on'll all be friends in drivking ‘Health to Durtrey.’" 

The Earl of Dartrey replied in a few kindly re.urrs oy new of his 
thanks, and the company broke up shortly after midnight, having spent a 
most enjovable and successful Chess gathering... 

On the following Wednesday, which was granted as a holiday for the 
purpose, Mr. Rosenbaum invited all the competitors in the Major Tourna- 
ment to witness the Derby in true English fashion. Two lreaks conveyed 
the whole party, who were most sumptuously entertained by their host, and 
had the rare opportunity of witnessing a genuine English holiday, Baron 
Kolisch accompanied the party, and was the life of all present. For a sbort 
period of the drive to Epsom he and Herr Winawer contested a game of 
Chess without boards and men, and though as Chess it was not of a very 
high order, i: is worth preservation from the singularity of the circum- 
stances under which it was conducted. It was published the next day in 
the Standard newspaper, and will be found on next page. No hitch 
occurred to mar the pleasure of the day's proceedings, and the foreign 
Chess masters thoroughly enjoyed a sight «f which they had all heard, but 
which none of them had previously witnessed. 

At an earlier date, all the competitors, together with the leading Chess. 
ar feb of London, had been entertained by Mr. Hirschfeld, and on the 
2nd June they were again entertained at dinner by the Earl of Dartrey at 
his private residence, when he was able to announce that a prize for the 
most brilliant game des in the second round of the Tournament had 
been offered by Mr. Howard Taylor, which he had requested Lord Dartrey 
to decide. 

The Tournament and the festivities connected with it came to a close, 
and it has been alike my duty and my pleasure to draw up this memorial of 
its proceedings to accompany the following Collection of Games, which will 
prove, I trust, a lasting Record of the great Chess gathering of London, 

18835. 
JAMES INNES MINCHIN, 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

GAME BETWEEN BARON KOLISCH AND 8, WINAWER. xlv 

GAME PLAYED ON THE ROAD TO THE DERBY, WITHOUT SIGHT OF 
BOARDS AND MEN, BETWEEN BARON KOLISCH AND 8. WINAWER. 

White. Black. 
Baron Kotiscu. 8S. Winawer. 
1PtoK4 Ptok 4 
2 KttoK B38 Kt toQ B3 
3 BtoBAé BtoB4 
4 Castles Kt to K B3 
5 PtoQ Kt4 Bt. P 
6 PteoQB3 Bto R 4 
7PtoQ4 Castles 
8 BtoR3 RtoKsy(?)(A) 
9 PtoQ5 Kt to Kt sq 
10 PtoQ6é Pir 
11 Bt. P ktt. P 
12 Ktt.P Ktt. B 
13 Qt. Kt R to K 2(?)(B) 
14 Ktt KBP(!) Rt Kt 
15 QWwQ5 Kt toB3(?(C) 
16 Qt. Reh K to R sq 
17 RtoK sq (!) —_—- Resigns. 

(A) Ono must not look for very 
correct Chess under the circum- 
stances in which this game was 

played. By a transposition of 
moves we have arrived at a well- 
known position of the Evans’, 
where 8 P to Q 3 is the only cor- 
rect move. Baron Kolisch takes 
admirable advantage of the posi- 
tion. 

(B) Black’s best chance was to 

give up the exchange at once by 13 
Rt. Kt If; 

LB avn B to B 2 sq 
14 Bt. BP ch K to R sq 
15 BtR Bt. Q 

16 Kt to B7 ch K to Kt sq 
17 Ktt.Q K to B sy 

18 BtoR4 P to Kt 3 

19 BtoB3 K to K sy 

20 P to K 5, saving the piece, and 
remaining a Rook ahead. 

(©) If Black guards his R, he 
loses first the K B, aud then the 
exchavge. 

riginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

xlvi 

LONDON INTERNATIONAL CHESS TOURNAMENT. 
— i 
Patron—HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF ALBANY. 

Presipent—THE EARL OF DARTREY, K.P. 
—= 

Members of General Committee. 

Trae Ean. or Brssporoven. 

THe Earu or CRAWFORD AND 
BaLcakREs. 

Lorn Browntow CEcIL. 

Lorp Raypo.px Cacrcaru, M.P. 

H.H. tue Rasan Ramevun Sinan. 

Lrevt.-GenerRAL VIAuis, C.B. 

Masor-Generat Bowie. 

Masor-Generat Morant. 

Masor-Generat A. Pearse, R.A. 

Lievt..Cotonen Strerpine, Cold- 
stream. 

‘ 

Tue Rey. Srx Givsert Lewis, Barr. 

Srr Cuarztes Locock, Bart. 
Hon. H. C. Piuyxerr, 
Hexsert Batpwin, Esq. 

F. W. Batt, Esq. 

Dr. Batuarp, Jun. 

Cc. G. Barrineton, Esq. 

¥. Barrow, Esa. 

Captain A. 8S. Beaumont. 
J. P. Bensamin, Esq, Q.C. 
W. Berry, Esg., of Clifton. 
F. D. Brann, Esq. 

T. W. Boorp, Esq., M.P. 
A. Bovrsort, Esq, 

F. Burrovucus, Esq. 

H. G. Carrier, Esa. 

D. B. Cuarman, Esq. 

W. M. Carnnery, Esq. 
Rev. J. Coxer. 

J. Crum, Esq., of Glasgow, 

W. H. Custson, Esq. 

A. J. Day, Ese. 

Rev. J. pz Sorres, 
Worpsworra Dontstuores, Esq. 
James Eccuizs, Esq. 

H. R. Fiancts, Esq. 

H. F. Gastineau, Esq. 

Rev. J. Greens, of Clifton. 

C. G. GCurgn, Esq. 

G. F. Hampron-Couttinson, Ese. 
H. L. Harrtsor, Esq., of Calcutta. 
Tos. Hewitt, Esq. 

Pu, Hirscarevp, Esq. 

W. Kipson, Esq. 

Dr. E, Keer. 

F. BE. Lams, Esq. 

W. B. Larminte, Esq., of Calcutta, 
F. Leumann, Ese. 

F. H. Lewis, Esq. 

W. A. Linpsay, Ese. 

P, Lrot-Bawxes, Esq. 

H. J. Luoyp, Esa. 

P. Luorp-Eastiake, Esa. 

J. F. Lovetocr, Esq. 

G. W. Mepwey, Esa. 

Captain MELHApo. 

D. Me.uano, Esq. 

J. I. Mincuiy, Ese. 

C. E. Muptr, Esq. 

Joun Norsvury, Esq. 

Rey. Jonn Owen. 

Arraur Gires Potrer, Esq. 

1 Tre 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MEMBERS OF GENERAL COMMITTEE. xlvii 

Cuartes Potter, Ese. 
J. E. Rassern, Ese. 
Rev. Cuartes RanKen. 
H. Rapuazt, Esq. 
Rippats, Ese. 

. Roseypaum, Esa. 

. Sauter, Esq. 

Samuet, Esq. 

Samvue., Esq. 
Scuweirzer, Esq. 

G. Saw, Esa. 

J. Sims, Esq. 

Rey. A. B. Skteworrtu. 

F. Lox+s Stovs, Ese. 
Suerirr Sprens, of Glasgow. 

HQUHQoe> ey 

M. Ross, Esq., of Calcutta. 

R. Steer, Esg., of Calcutta. 
A. Srrauss, Esq. 

Cc. R. M. Tarsot, Esq., M.P. 
E. J. Tayztor, Esq., of Clifton. 
J. Howarp Tartor, Esq. 

K. THoro.p, Esq. 

J. Trurspy, Esq. 

W. Trrez, Esq., of Clifton. 

J. H. Wanner, Ese. 

J. Watkinson, Esq. 

J. J. Warts, Esq. 

Rey. W. Wayte. 

W. B. Woonaarez, Esa. 

M. Wrvict, Ese. 

J. Ursttanp, Esq., of Calcutta. 

Managing Committee. 

H. Barpwiy, Esq. 
Dr. W. Batarp, Jun. 
W. H. Custson, Esa. 

Worpsworth Donistuorps, DsqQ. 

Pu. Hirscure.p, Esq. 
F. H, Lewis, Esg., Chairman. 
J. F. Loyzxock, Esq. 

Masor-Generat Pearse, R.A. 
J. E. Ranzetn, Esq. 

A. Roserpaum, Ese. 

R, Steet, Esa. 

J.J. Warts, Esq. 

Rey. W. Wayrs. 

W. B. Woopeatz, Esq. 

Officers. 

J. I. Mincaty, Esq, Honorary Seerctary. 
L. Horrer, Esg., Honorary Foreign Secretary. 
H. F. Gastineau, Esq., Honorary Treasurer. 

nal Tr 

PRINCETON UNI VERSITY 

xlviii 

NOMINAL LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 

TO THE 

LONDON INTERNATIONAL CHESS TOURNAMENT, 1883. 

> 

The Earl of Dartrey, K.P. 

C. R. M. Talbot, Esq., M.P. 2 

R. Steel, Esiy. ‘ 
H. G, Cattley, Esq. 
¥F. H. Lewis, Esq. 

Captain A. S. Beaumont. 
. 20 
. 20 
.W 

H. 5. Raphael, Esq. 
Hon, J. C. St. Clair 
J. 1. Minchin, Esq. 

D. Melbado, Esy. . 

Marmaduke Wyvill, Ex. 

J. H. Warner, Esq. 
Rev. W. Wayte 

Francis Barrow, Esq. 

Rey. C, Ranken 
P. Hirschfeld, Esq . 
W. H. Cubison, Esij. 

F. C. Burroughs, Est. 
D. B, Chapman, Esy. 

C. G, Shaw, Esq. 

F. Lehmann, Esq. . 
W.. 8. Gover, Esq. . 
W. F. Ball, Esq. 
S. Lawrence, Esy. . 
John Samuel, Esq. . 
George Samuel, Esij. 
G. W. Medley, Esq. 
Dr. Ballard, Jun. 

The Earl of ‘Crawford and 

Balcarres . 

A. G. Puller, Esq. .« 

Lieut.-Colonel Sterling . 

D. M. Salter, Esq. . 

. 20 

20 

10 

5 

Carried forward £381 

Scoococcroeceocece|cec?# 

a 
~ 
— 

oo 

eosccoceseooosooocsescoececcecococe®S® 

eo seooe 

_ C. Puller, Es. 

St. George’s Chess Club. 
H.R.H. the Duke of Albany, K.G. 

-£20 0 0 

20 0 0 

£0 0 0 

Brought forward 42 

E. Schloper, Esq. 

Sir C. B, Locock, Bart. 
M. Hughes, Esq. . 

W. Mackeson, Esv,., Qc. 
E. Goldschmidt, Esi. 
Lieut.-Colonel Patauinn ‘ 
A. Ashton, Esy. . ° 
F. P. Wilson, Esq. . ° 
Major-General Pearse 
W. E. Heathcote. Esy. 
C. Meyer, Esq. , 

COO rr cr or cre & 

ad] 

W. W. Ross, Esy. 5 
A. Boursot, Esq. . 5 
TW Boord, Bins MP.. 5 
H. Mann, Esq. ; var 
Major-General Morant . 5 
J. Howard Taylor, Esq.. 5 
J. Carrick Moore, Esq. . 5 
Sir John Trelawny, Bart. 6 
A. Kosenbaum, Esq. 73 
Rev. W. J. Crichton 5 
E. Thoruton, Fsq. . » <2 
T. Maltby, Esq. 5 
J. Marshall, Esq 5 
R. R. Carew, Esq. . f 
| Dr. Prior 5 
_ Rev. H. Blane 5 
Rev. J. H. Ellis 5 

C. Giimpel, Esq... 5 
The Earl of Besshorough 5 

Carried forward £583 

Original from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

wanna cr 

i) 

Ot Se Sr Sy Se Se Cr Sr Sr IS Cr Oe Or er tr Or rr Gr or Or 

qr 

escseseoceoscoeoscsosooosceooseccocoeo® 

NOMINAL 

£ 
Brought forward 583 

Rev. J. v Cartwright 
Rev. John de Soyres 

R. Michell, Esq. 

C. Marett, Esq. ° 
Lieut,-General Vialls 

H. P. Malkin, Esq. 

E. 8. Simpson, Esq. 
W.A. Lindsay, Esq. 

A. Cohen, Esq. > 
Rev. E. J. Huntsman 
H. R. Francis, Esq. 

F. D, Bland, Eeq. . ‘ 
Colonel Beaumont, R.E. . 
Lieut.-Colone] Campbell . 
W. M. Gattie, Esq. . 

W. Gunston, Es. 

T. E. Preston, Esq. 

W. Dewar, Esq. 

Major Tillard . 

Rajah Rampul Sing 
Rev. Ilbert Crosse . 
Hon. H. C. Plunkett 

R. Wigram, Esq. 

R. F. Hunt, Esq... 
Lieut.-Col. Salmond, RE. 
F. Gover, Esq., jun. 

F. Darvall, we 

Dr. Pearl 

Rev. Lewis W. Lewis 
A. Sich, Esq. . F 

G. M. Gowan, Esq. ‘ 

Total : 

Lord R. Churehill, LP. 66 
H. J. Lloyd, Esq. 5 
C. Barrington, Esq. 5 
T. Butler, Esq. ‘ 5 
Majoe-Geners!, Bowie 3 
Colonel Jervoise 3 
Rev. W. Beckett 5 
A. 8. Day, Esq. : 
2 
2 
2 
2 

ee et pe me et pe ft et et es et et et es OD ED DO BO NS bo 

SC RRR RR RR RR RR Ree eRe DI DNDN ND NDOOON WO Wott as 

to 
= 
i" 
4 

LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. 

SresocoocooooeosoeooeseoceocecoceosessooseoossoecooosessesoF 

City of London Chess Club. 

H. Eschwege, Esq. . 10 10 
H. Baldwin, Esq. 10 10 
J. E. Rabbeth, Esq. 5 0 
H. F. Gastineau, Esq. 5.5 
T. Schofield, Esq. 5 5 
i. 8. Leonard, Esq. 5 5 

Carried forward £41 15 

elooocoeceo 

2s 
Brought forward . 41 15 
Gustav Bitter, Esq. 2 
J. F. Lovelock, Esq. 2 
G. W. Jones, Esq. : 
Robert Clarke, Esq. 
H. K. Argall, Esq. . 
G. Dufresne, Esq. 
P. Pizzi, Esq. . 
J. A. Manning, Esq. 
W. E. Blunt, Esq. . 
E. George, Esq. 
F. A, Atkinson, Esq. 
J.J. Watts, Esq. . 
C. G. Cutler, Esq. . 
* ae th, Esq. 
ng, Esq. . . 
Bev, J. J. Scargill . ‘ 
F. L. Hopkins, Esq. 
W. Meller, Esq. . 
N. Maugham, Esq. 
R. Bridgman, Esq. 
C. J. Woon, Esq. 
G. A. Hooke, Esq. . 
M. D. Blunt, Esq. . 
W. G. H. Marwood, Esq. 
R. F. Walthew, Esq. 
J. Ridpath, Esq 
H. Maidlow, Esq. 
R. H. Barrett, Esq. 
8. Carter, Esq. 
5. Robins, Esq 

Ls) 

— 
tS SO ee et et on no 

CeKOCSOSS ew HS SHO Fe eS Pe 

E 

WAR ASO dae Datuec Aenea admbdebumeeseces 

0 
0 

G. W. Crawford, Esq 10 
J.J. Bradle 10 
E. Marks, Esq. ‘ 1 
S. Pouneceby, Esq. . . 1 
R. Pilkington, Esq. ‘ 1 
H. A. Moes, Esq. ‘ 1 
M. Beyfus, Esq... 5 
H. G. Livermore, Esq. 5 
W. A. Green, Esq. . 10 
W. G. Mackie, Esy. 10 
8. J. Stevens, Esq. . 5 
Rev. 8. W. Earnshaw 1 
H. D. Woolley, Esq. 2 
Total. £85 8 

Bristol and Clifton Cheas Association. 
Rev. J. Greene 5 5 
Lewis Fry, Esq., M.P. i 3 
Carried forward £6 6 

| if 1} 
PRINC ETO N UNIVERSITY 

0 

—- 

Rev. J. E. Vernon , 
Rev. N. Tibbits ; 
Rev. G. N. Moncrieffe 
W. Harsant, Esq. . 
T. W. Walton, Esq. 

. T. Taylor, Esq. . 
Rig tgs Esq. 

Glin he a4. 
Bq. 

. Prideauy, 

unt, ‘Esq. 

SOgmn i>! 
zee St 

Ww. Franklin, a, ‘ 

Rev. R. W. Southby 
Mrs, Bate 
Miss Gorham. 

Miss Nutting . 

Mr. G. W. Isaac 

= We cael 

» H. E. Miller 

» 8. T. Jey . ; 
» E.T. Bullock . 

T. Grace . 

Club Funds 

Total . 

LONDON 

Brought forward . 

SOSSSSSSSSSSSSSCHP HE See eS ee eS ee ey 
alii sealed amd 

OD Gre Sr Se re re re Sr Se SS et tt et a et tt et et et 

Seimooooooooeszeanascqooosce|escoseooooooos 

Liverpool Chess Club. 

Rev. John Owen 
Jas. Lister, Esq. 
Sam. Wright, Esq. . 
J. M. Wood, Esq. 
Thos, Greaves, Esq. 
W. H. Holt, Esq. 
Dr. Sinclair ‘ 
A. Beakbane, Esq. . 
W. W. Rutherford . 
A. Myers, Esq. ; 
H. E. Kidson, Esy. . 
T. L. Cater, Esq. 

R. K. Leather, Esq. 
T. H. Couk, Esq. 

G. Ferguson, Esq. . 
Club Funds . 

Total. 

MoeeeccocR eRe RR RR Ree 
et 
SO COCO et ee ee eR 

| 

SC|AAaaacrcocroeocrcocococco 

et 
ty 
> 
> 

CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Glaagow Chees Club. 

Sheriff Spens . ‘ 
J. D. Chambers, Esq. 
Neil Kennedy, Esq. 
John renew Beg . 
W. Tait, Esq... ‘ 
W. F. Murray, Esq. 
Robert Pirrie, Esq. 
D. Outram, Esq. . 
R. Livingstone, Esq. 
*Minor Subscriptions 

Total. 

London, 

Dr. Batt . ‘ 
T. Mellish, Esij. 
T. Thompson, Esy. . 
J. Marriage, Esq. 
J. Foster, Esq. 
I. L. Kinnoul, Esq. 
A. Weatherhead, Esq. 
Mr. 8. H. Androde . 
» W. Fleming . 
» G. W. Foord 
» ‘T. Sanetts 
» J. K. Ilman 
» H. Luckett 
» G. L. Brooks 
» 2 P. Carr 
» H. Schlesinger . 
» H. Garbutt 
» D. Cadney 
» JR. Hodge 

Total . 

Pt Pe et et te tet et pe fet 
OO) NH ee ee ee pe 

ecococooeooe seco SO eH eee 

£9 

_ 

£il 

Atheneeunt Chess Club, Camden 

— 

Ca) orce Ge crcr Creo cr cr Gr Cr Ot SO et et et et et 

Crystal Palace Chess Club, 

F. C. Burroughs, Esq. 
F. Gover, Esq. : 
J. R. Clark, Esq. 
Captain A. ‘Beaumont 
E. P, Frencham, Esq. 

Total . 

ed et et 

£5 

re) et et et pe pe 

* Names not received by Hon. Secs 

I 31 ri 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

@lacoocoeoococos 

FSioovoococoocoocoooacococeoo 

o|;cooooo 

NOMINAL LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. hi 
Penzance Chess Club. Zn 2 
£ ». ad. | Croydon Chess Club ae te, a on 
Rev. Preb. Hedgeland a. a 
gts Gartrvil, Heq . . : ; Wakefield Chess Club. 
i. ra ‘ ‘ . 
tek 5 swe OO ee Re: 
Young 010 
Total. £5 5 0 ree 010 
Nottingham Chess Club. ee ee ae: 
Sigismund Hamel, Esq... 2 2 0{ ” Daffarn . | . 01 0 
H.N. Hatherley,Esq. . 1 1 0] |, Proctor . : ie 2k Ss 
A. Marriott, Esq. - 1 1 O07 |, Scholefield 010 
C. Sipmann, Esq. . 5 ee » Crofts . Dh 
» Grace OL QO 
Total . #5 5 0 » Raynor 010 
” Day . 01 0 
Newcastle and Gateshead Chesa Club. | The Club 0 8 O 
The Club . 5 ae 
Rey. A. Archdall 110 tal, « Ais 
Mr. Zollner : ; 3 
» Lucas : ‘ ‘ 
‘ hace: aon _— Clearing House Chess Club. 
y> Whitwell . 1 1 0| C.S8. Kirdell, Esq. . ce Ee 
W. D. Perry, Esq. . Se Ue 
Total. £6 6 O| E. Lahee, Esq. ‘ i 2, 3 
*Minor Subscriptions 22 0 
Oxford University Chess Club 3 3 O 
Preston Oheas Club a 
Through J.T.Palmer, Esq. 110 0 ; 
F twas .2 2% Leamington Chesa Club . 2-8 
South Norwood Chess Club 1 1 0 | Wisbech Chess Club. . 1 1 0 
Highaate Chese Club 4s B. H. Jackson, Esq. 11 0 
ighga R. Bennett, Eeq . 110 
Bury St. Edmonds Chess Club. Total ree 
Mr. Ford ‘ ‘ 5 ee os 
» H.C, Thomas . 0 2 0 —- 
, J.J. Cotton . 0 2 O| Bath Chess Club Lo «dh 
3, W. Dawson 02 0 . 
” DP. Barry 020 Belsize Chess Club .« ‘ : 3.0 
» F.W. Clarke . 0 2 ©| North London Chess Clb. 5 5 O 
a z —— : ; : Kentish Town Chees Club. 1 1 O 
, W. Burre ‘ 
3 H. Barker 0 20 Luton Chess Club, . 2 2 6 
» 2B. Craske 0 2 O | Huddersfield Chess Club. 1 1 0 
2 @ 
sical Bent A Total Chess Clubs £123 7 6 
Total. fii & 
—=_ = 

Leicester Chess Club 
Through Mr. Sharland . 2 2 0 

* Names not reecived by Hon, Sec. 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

lii 

General Subseriptions. 
£ 

G. W. Medley, Esq., Trus- 
tee of the Lowenthal 
Trust . 0 

Baron Kolisch, ‘of Vienna. 25 

Messrs. Rothschild, of 
London. ; 

The Field Newspaper 

James Eccles, Esq. . 

Adam Wilson, Es 

Simpson's, Limi 

Dr. Ballard, Sen. 

G. H. Lewis, Esq. . 

W. L. Woodgate, Esq. 

F. L. Slous, Esq. . 

J. P. Benjamin, Esq. Dies C. 

T. Hewitt, Esq. 

W. M. Chinnery, Esq. 

ge h Steele, Eeq. 

. Frankenstein, Esq. 

W. Donisthorpe, Esq. . 

A. Keith Johnston, Esq. . 

P. Liot Bankes, Esq. 

T. B. Wilson, Esq. . 

Rev. J, Coker . ° 

H. H. Gideon, Esq. 

J.J, Sims, Esq. 

T. Bourn, Esq, > 

Rev. A. B. Skipworth 

A. BR. Steel, Esq. 

Rev. 
Bart. 

ee rt rr Ot Se Ot Ot Ot Or Se Cr Or Or Or 

Sir Gilbert Lewis, 

Thos. Long, Esq. - 

C. I. Gray, Esy. . 
H. I. Coburn, Esq. . 
W. Gateskill, Esq . 
A. Chappell, Esq. 
R. Bianchi, Esy. 

H. Lyne, Eeq. 

F. Mead, Esq. : 
L. Goodrich, Esq. . 
Dr. Maurice Davis . 
R. Toomer, Esq. 

T. Chappell, Esq. 
W. Thompson, Esy. 
F. Hardcastle, Esq. 
A. Davis, Esq. 

H, Sewell, Esq. 

A. Solomon, Esq. 

8. Joshua, Es. 

el el ell el ol) 

Carried forward £226 

= 

ee eer cr Orr arr OOK OS Oo coc 

Se el 

pad pet 

o eooccoccCOorFH.}S-r- 

© cecoooococooaseocesoeoosco ecoeocsecececece|ece|ce|ssesesoseo Feo 

LONDON CHES8 TOURNAMENT. 

Brought forward 226 

L. Cohen, Esq. . 
A. Alexander, Es. 
Mrs. H. Defries 
E. Thorold, Esy. . 
L. R. 8. Tourmalin, Hay. 
J. Vincent, Esq... 
T, Ryle, Exq. . 
G. White, Eaq. 
R. P. Webb, Esy. 
C, Selwyn, Esq 
M. Silverston, Esq. 
Walter Leaf, Es. 
A. Mocatta, Ean. ‘ 
C. B. Newenham, Esq. 
W. H. 8. Monck, Esy. 
Captain Melhado_ . i 
M. E. Hughes — 

Esq. . : 
Dr. Brown. . 
Rey. Wyatt Mitto . 
J. A. Miles, Esy. 
D. Y. Mills, Esq. 
Rev. Hugh C. Briggs 
M. Bateson Wood, Esy. . 
W. Steinitz, Esq. é 
L. Nathan, Esq. . 
T. B. Wilson, Esq. . 
J. Dolphin, Esq. . 
Henry Erskine, Es. 
Oswald Erskine, Esyj. 
8. J. Chandler, Esq. 
S. Prout Newcombe, Esq. 
See Ward, Esy., Dews- 

J. Wilkis, Ex. 

z N. Keynes, Es. . 

E. J. Winter Wood, Ex. 

Ronald Mackay, Ex. 

John Norbury, Esq. 

John Watkinson, Esq. 

R. H., per ditto 

G. W. Oakley, Esy. 

G.N. Stark, "Esq. 

R. W. Hall, Esy., Mossel 
Bay 

-= Lovett, Eeq. - Shaftes- 
bury Club 

Amateurs at Hong Kong, 
per E. R. Sandys, R.N. 

RD pet re tt pt tt te BD 

- 

— et = bo 

ee el el ell £) 

—_ _ ~ el dl ello) 

Total £281 

Irnginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

—_ 
te on ed el id 

Rite eH OM DI eH eee ei 

ee Oren 

7 

eooocooceceoceoccoec-= 

eoco coc 

ec!'co esc seecssoooeosodhU6UcOCCcCOCCCOCOCOOoO SC CoS 

NOMINAL LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS, 

Indian Subscriptions, 

£8 d. 
HisHighnessRamaVarma, 
Maharaja of Travan- 
core, K.C.8.I. -80 0 0 
The ely of Vizaya- 
2 0 0 
"Collected by R. Steel, Esq., in 
Calcutta. 
The Marquis of Ripon, 
K.G., G.M.8.L., Viceroy 
and Governor-General R. 150 

TheHon.A. Rivers Thomp- 
son, Lieut,-Governor of 
Bengal c 50 
The Hon. Maharaja Sir 
Joteendon Mohun Ta- 

gore, K.C.S1.. 150 
Maharaja of Dhurbhunga 500 
Maharaja of Burdwan . 50 
The Hon. H. T. Prinsep . 50 
Ven. Archdeacon Baly . 16 
Baboo Jadoo Lall Mullick 50 
W.H. Targett, Esq., Pro- 

prietor of The Asian 320 
8S. O. B. Saunders, Esq., 

of The Englishman ‘ 50 
A. Acton, Esij. ; ‘ 16 
A. A. Apear, Esq. . ‘ 25 
J.A.Apcar, Esq... 16 
T. A. Apear, Esq. . ; 16 
T. B. Beighton, Esy. 16 
A. CG. Brett, Es , 16 
James Campbell, Esq. : 16 
EK. Courjon, Esq. . ‘ 100 
H. 8. Cotton, Esq. . ‘ 16 
W. Craik, Esq. ; ‘ 16 
R. Euler, Esq. ‘ ‘ 16 
T. F. Finlay, Esq. . : 16 
Dr. Greenhill . . , 16 
H. L. Harrison, Esq. : 32 
J. Henderson, Esq. . ‘ 16 
W. Johnston, Esq. . ’ 50 
W. R. Larminie, Esq. . 32 
Harry Lee, Esq ‘ 20 
M. Massey, Esq. . 16 
J. MeLaren, Esq. . ‘ 16 
J. F. Maenair, Esq. ‘ 16 
J. D. Maxwell, Esq. . 16 
W. C. Morgan, Esq. P 16 
G. Nevill, Esq. ‘ ‘ 16 

Carried forward . BR. 1933 

liii 

Brought forward. R. 1933 
T. E. Porgiter, Esq. ‘ 16 
R. M. Ross, Esq. . “| 160 
J SM Rushton, Esq. . 25 
Smellie, Esq. ‘ 50 
R. Steel, Esq. pe ' 320 
T FS, 'Wakley, ae 16 
J. Westland, Esq . : 50 
Edward Morris, Esq. ; 16 
J. C. Murray, Esq. . ‘ 16 
Maharaj Koomara Rames. 
war Singh . . » 17 
Dr. De F . ‘ 16 
J. J. Sinclair, Esq. . ‘ 20 
E. J. Sinkinson, Eaq. ‘ 16 
G. M. Blacker, Esq. : 16 
C. B. Jourdain, Esq. ‘ 25 
C. H. Ogbourne, Esq. . 50 
Baboo Rajendro Nath Rai 
Bahadoor . : 16 
Total . . R278 
Equivalent to £221 16 7 
C. I, I. Jackson, Esq. 5 00 
. £226 16 7 
Deduct Subscription of R. 
Steel, Esq., entered un. 
der St. George’s List . 25 0 0 
£20116 7 
Australian Subscriptions. 
Collected by Messrs. Burns and 
Wisker. 
Melbourne. 
Alfred Wyatt, Esq, P.M. 2 2 0 
A. Burns, Esq. ‘ 22 0 
I, Flaxman, Esq. i SE ES 
C. M. Fisher, Esq. . ay > ‘oat | 
T. D. Clarke, Esq. . ; 2 2-9 
Rev. I. W. H. L’oste > eo. 2 
G. Lush, Esq. Se ee 
£9 9 0 
Adelaide. 
Adelaide Chess Club . 8 3 0 
Clare Chess Club 015 0 
Carried forward ..£3 18 0 

ral fr 
PRIt ICETO N UNIV ERS ITY 

liy LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

24d. 28 @. 
Brought forward. 318 0 Brought forward .19 13 0 
H. Charlick, Es. 1 1 OO} W.C. Rigby, Esq. . LF 1D 
Hon. I. Hodgkiss . 2 2 O| W. Cavenagh, Esq. ize 
W. B. Roundswell, Esq... 22 0 — 
Hon. R. D. Ross ae ee #2115 0 
F. P. Fuller, E : 2 8 
A. M. Simpson, Esq. lis New Zealand, 
R. B. Smit , Esq. 1 1 0 | Wellington Chess Club . 5 5 0 
W. Everard, Esq. 1 1 0 | Napier Chess Club . ye ae 
Jobn Mann, Esq. ae = 
J. H. Symon, Esq. . shen ws f6 6 0 
W. H. Gray, Esq. . “ag ae Ge aah 
George Chamier, Esq. . 1 1 0 c Nr ithe in 6 
R. Mellor, Esq. 110 ve Pee“ 
Carried forward £19 13 0 Received in England £36 3 4 
Summary. 
eo # 
St. George’s Chess Club 666 19 0 
City of London ditto : ' 85 8 6 
Other Chess Clubs in Great Britain . ’ 123 7 6 
General Subscriptions in Great Britain . 281 9 0 
Indian Subscriptions . 481 16 7 
Australian Subscriptions . 36 3 4 
Total Subscriptions £1675 3 11 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BALANCE SHEET. 

ere. ‘. ‘SLLVAA “SVf "ONL 

‘Higaavy “qf 

P2rpuny O44 Jo souLTeq FIpeto B Buraoys yoo sroyuvg 0 
eany am SABTT JO OJAI OT] PUB ‘IaINsBaIy, “MOF, eq} * 

a=) 

oo 

$9 
080'T 

SAoquRg ey} Fv swe 

op IO} soUT SISSY jemorssazory 40; quouse7 
. sasuedxe Ayj3ed ‘yuemeanoy, 
943 JO Yoog jo JuNoooe uo UIMOUTRT “I7T 
JOWTHOR, Y OMINGAOY “sissapy 0} MINNA, 
- "pouinjei seog oouBU” ¢ 

0 OLO * sonbeqp 
0 & * Sunuug 
"ae gery 4yeq 
00 ct * * = &epg jo sopeandy 
0 0 OSIF" ° * TT®H Jo yuey 
—sosuadzy 
pouamyar spisodeq ¢z 
ve pu ‘gy 

‘su ‘ow ‘OCF ‘OFF “O9F ‘ORF “ZA— 
DOMINO T, mernseurAezt A oy} Ul saz preg 
: peuinger syisodeq eL 
: Sty PU ‘ocF ‘OSs 
‘uy pre “COle ‘OSIF “CLIiF ‘OOkF 
“ZIA—QUOUIVUANOT, LOISVL OY} Ul sez Peg 
a 

‘SSS ‘Amr Yi9s 

(Pe 88 6267) souedom) puv ssuriiqs yqS1e spunod suiu-Ajuaaes pue 

$90a4t09 Ulaq} puy pur ‘sreqono, oq} GIA meq} poresduioo 
aLeg “TOFT oY} JO SjuN000e oy} peuIMEXe CABG OAK 

& Sl OCler 

geno coo FC°90CRFN 

‘sJaqueg ye yisodep wo ysaraquy 
: Seuow-s00p jo “quao saad g¢ 
* spood jo a[¥s Jo spas001g 
* 0491p ut sysodaq ¢z 
; qUOTIVUANO], Weed 
svunsort, ony Mr see] COURT 25 
oyytp wt sysodeqyT gt 
‘ * guewwurnoy, 
22980] OG} Ut SOT COULIIUT FT] 
. * Jamsvory, “Nop om} Aq“ 
* Arejasoeg ‘uoH oq} fq paatooey 
“aT 

‘S881 ‘LNGNVYNHOOL SSHHO TVNOILVNUGLNI NOGNOT FHL 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TOURNAMENT. 

LONDON CHESS 

‘li 

| 

———E———————_ 
0 0 mF 0 0 OF 
» STA * —- YOoR JO 4809 ay, “ 
o t10 : : ; ¢ ’ munition Dewar ee 
P: SiR x a tmrniZeap auinogiapy 
0 4 Gf * - : ‘ a : . - : Suyung ¢ 
: t | oe : * iauoymg 
) ag ’ : ° * * adr} So, " . 
Pp. dI—"Pi¥d —§ . rag 
" “LNAODOV SAUVLAUONS AUVYONOH 
P, ‘ EE 
8 $F stycs WL Avy ‘shuipsovorg sag 8 ¥ ocr 
a a Ot + oS tivo quae sad O¢ ‘mnnqnasoy -y | 
I 6t tt’ : ’ : : . saansvary, “ 
OP, * (Spoog) Jo eI" JO Coizsod) unpouryy OF onboYD 
00 8 * * -* — * SOL (8) BAIT ¥— f-sOT ‘I00q 
qe ua +77 ‘asnoqueaing ap ‘cz ‘SSpIMtlang OF —*saring ty 
9 SI 8S * “POE ELF ‘eoueds t-soT OIF ‘soytny ‘GF IsanQ—wrE Ay 
73 4 * ; 5 4 * qeonsy “souady ‘soytinyy ‘sw Aneg 
o DoF ‘ . : Fs : sBeiyq JO aay ‘uoytutpy | 
ire Ss (op ‘wogqy ‘sxo.moLy) sonny qu sesuedxry 
o. 30g > “ — ee -pauadser peuones 
OLstot * . . . . . . (siayan04 )—2y Japun sft¢q 
Oo ore * * OGUp JO 98] JO INA 40d su atwnnyy 04 Ug promi 
Org S © SF FFT 8 aap f80q-0097 AT O76) -P sULyIY,T 
Secs. 2 ° ~~ MONS ‘iadooy yy eFpuiaTty 
0 SI Te ° $ ’ saaive Zurfdos “sayz UIS 
0 9 aL ° . . . . . . . FPLIMMISIAVAPY 
otto >. -* " * * SPAT Sunayy ‘suog y moptaze ay 
® Ong h * + (miwansuuntuzig “ =) agr snisugy | ¢ 2 0 * 
14 WH" * * * Qaamutnoys sysuyy ‘sxOO[D) uo qtq | O 4T 0 * 
0 oO. £t " ¥ : . a eyo, jonburyg Suu “‘ooyung 9 0 > ; 
oOo F 6L : : z N4uq puy wong 107 “Lu oO 9T 246 * 
0 ZI 8I - + qoefuoay pe EL eae 
9 SIL 9e ’ . ° sd e Spltog puv usmsseyS 403 ‘uog y sonbur ior ° 
«ky : . . ¢ smooy joouyy =“ «"}0 0 368° 
9 @ 49 - 7 8 Se e * sontig ‘pug pandg | 0 0 SZ * 
» Bike a "AD (Pp? F 

ea 4&7 ew 

BED Ape —pasrsoy 

. . sduvyg “ “ 
* sqwand yop tT “ 
. . ‘ spoon be “ 
. Spy, aouuig us “ “ 
. .- o}Ip I “ oe 
. JPL, uoswag I “ “ 
"PO “86 ‘S}9NPLL, OEI's F9 9["S “ 
® * uroorpy aad ‘onbarsg og, 

+c 

“LNANVNYNOL SSAHO 'IVNOILVNYGLNI HLIA LNOCOOV Nl “dd ‘NOVaNaSOU '¥ 

Onginal from 

PRINCETOP 

. . 
Lo. ee 

ITY 

+ 

1 UNIVER 

GAMES IN THE MAJOR TOURNAMENT. 

SECTION I. 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 

THE NOTES IN THIS SECTION ARE BY DR. J H, ZUKERTORT. 

NOTES MARKED WITH SMALL LETTERS ARE BY THE EDITOR. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Original from 

Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 

—_—~~+ —— 

Game 1, played on the 26th of April. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. (C) 9 Q to Q 5 would be met 
M. Tontcortx. J, H. Zveeatont, yr 2 : 19 t. ri ae t. P ch, 
3 to Q 2, to Q 5, R to Kt sq, 
1PwK4 P to K 4 
2KttoKB3 KttoQBs 12 Kt to B 3, P to B3, &e, 
8 Bto Kt5 Kt to B3 (D) If 10 Kt to B 3, I intended 
4 Castles Ktt. P to proceed with 10.... Kt to B4, 
5 PtoQ4 Bto K 2 keeping the two Bishops and a 
6 PtoQ5 Kt to Q 3 well-developed game. 
7 Bt. Kt (A) QPt.B ; 
(E) Preparing the advance of the 
8 Pt. P. (B) P to B3 (!) K BP and the K P 
9 Pt. P (C) BP ‘ 
10 BtoK 3(D) Castles (F) I do not think that White 
11 Q Kt toQ 2 Kt to B 2 (E) has any continuation which would 
12 Qt K 2 PtoK B4 equalise the game, but the defen- 
13 Kt to Kt 3 PtoB5 sive moves 15 K Kt to Q 2, or 15 
1s Kite QA ‘ ee B t. B, seem to be better. 
5 KKt toQ4(F) PtoBé6 : 
16 QtoKtS(G) QtoBar(!) — oxtrome danger of ‘his. position 
eee, ene 16.Q to KS or B 4 would bea 
16 9 ee KttoKt4(H) —jittle better, while 16 Pt. P leads 
19 Ktt. P Pt. Kt to immediate loss with 16 B 
eee ad Fer: t. B, 17 Kt to K 6, Qto B 3, 18 
21 Rt. B (I) Kt to RG ch either Kt t. B,Q to Kt 3 ch, 19 K 
22 Kt. P Kt to B 5 ch io 'R uc. P&P ho : 
293 KtoB3 Q to R 6 ch so daimaaanet 
24 KtoK 4 B to Kt 2 ch (H) If 18... . Qto Kt5, then, of 
25 K toQ 4 Kt to K 3 ch course, 19 Ktt.P. Black threatens 
26 K to B 4 (J) R to B 5 ch now to mate in four moves, be- 
27 KttoQ4 Kt t. B ginuing with 19.... Kt to RG 
28 K t. Kt (K) Bag ahs chor19....Qto Kt 5 ace. 
29 KtoB4 t. Kt ch oe aad 
. I) If 21 Bt. B, Black wins with 
Resigns a Ktto RG DEE P, 

(A) New, but no improvement 
on the usual continuations 7 P t, 
Kt or 7 Bto K 2, 

(B) After 8Ktt. P, Pt. P,9Q 
t. P, BtoK 3and10.... Castles, 
Black has the better-developed 
game. 

Q to Kt 2 ch, 23 K t. Kt for 23 K 
to Kt 3],Q to B 6 ch, 24 K to R4, 
R to B 5 ch, &e. 

(J) Of course, if 26 Rt. Kt, then 
equally 26....Rto B5 ch, &. 

(K) If 28 R to K 8 ch, Black 
replies best 28.... K to B 2. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

3 PtoQ4 
tt. P 

sess 

K 
B 
P 
B 
B 
B 
K 

11K 
P 
K 
K 
Q 
R 
Q 

18 P to 
t 

21 P to 
22 PtoBé 

[1st hour. ] 
23 Pt. P 

24 R to Kt sq 
25 R to K sq (D) 
26 Rt. B 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 2, played on the 27th of April. 
SCOTCH OPENING. 

Black. 

J. H. ZceK eERTORT. 

PtoK4 
KttoQB3 
Pt. P 

Q t. Kt 

— 
=) 

"“setesssss™ 
Or FG ND py co 
- w 

aS 

ono eee SROn Rm HOR> 
Qo 
Cor ed 

rersssgsraers 
oc me «2B oe 
: 

THRONROROORZO_W WHO WIOS 
s 

Reo Aw te 
aw 

ad 
°o 
° 
o 

White Black. 
36 K to B2 RtoQ Kt 8 
37 KtoK 3 Rt. P 
383 RtoQ2 PtoQ4 
39 RtoQ3 K toB2 
40 KtoQ4 K to K 3 
41 PtoB4 Rto Kt 5ch 
2 K to K 3 PtoB4 
45 Kto BS Pto BS 
44 Rito K 3 ch K to Q3 
45 Rto K 8 PtoB6é 
46 RtoQ& ch K to K 2 
47 Rt P Rto BS 
48 R to Q sy PtoQ Kt4 
49 K to K 3 Pto Kt 5 
50 Rto K B sq P to Kt 6 
51 KtoQ3 PtoB7 

Resigns. 

(A) If 9 Castles, Black proceeds 
best with 9....PtoQ 4. 

(B) If11.... Kt t. Kt P, then 
12 Qto B2. 

(C) Of course, not 14 B to K 4, 
for Black would mate in three 
moves, beginning with14,... Qt. 
P ch. 

(D) The text move leads to de. 
cisive loss of material, but it is 
difficult to suggest any satisfactory 
rejoinder. If 25 K to R 2, then 
25....Bt. RP; if, on the other 
hand, 25 Q to Kt 2, then 25... . 
K R to R sq, threatening 26... . 
R to R 7. 

(E) Threatening to capture the 
Knight, and if the Pawn retake, to 
mate at 1 7, 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 

Game 3, played om the 30th of April. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

= wo oa oof mh 
Foran, mo Feo By Betgtqgtgss 8428995 *S4S85 
fe S Be hwawat Pm ataas Fgseota loses en SS EbRceses oh 
3mm Mam aaoot OSCR anol le ookM 382 [2es8eeP 
Mssskieessessisiisestsssisssisiss Squesah age ge 
OM MOM MOCCMM EME ORO CoOMOMOMOMoOm eee eee ane 
® ssa 0 
2 a a e 6 Zggbegs ye sees 
a ee I PE es pS 5882 gehs ° 233 
0 Seo SoM aMmwooMa tae TS ZS Fa PTOI. aS 5 § 38° sues 
{ime Sekoccomadedousl ekeketmlakie s 9 og bl eG bk ERs Ea 
EB SasBsssssessessesssFsssssasssessg MAAERE LSS | aes 
ARO ORORCCCOOOM OOOO MMe MMM MOoume SE eEERt ERE Rez 
$48 HSSSASSLBSERSSS BSEBEsseenae “SF FebSse Fess 
oo ns be += AS —~ So Sal FE 2 an z S 
{beg i atin 2 Pane a Be BSn tS toc on eg 285 2 4a tan 
MOM BOn Mm Rhone sh ome kee REA Se me oa ORMOR 
Bota eel bak mrad hoes eats Ha SE sSsSusSs*SsTAus io usStsssEgs 
mM POO A RA MA Ay Ry RR AO Re CPA fy hel Oe Ay Bt Ay pe hel bel 0, CPR CROPS Ae hel 
. ~ & & ~ 
ee eee avec e F GFEx_F 
orn Peg oe mo FINS TO Se as * S Page bee’) 3 wp SO mre Fe 2 
Se on oton SBM Re ee oeX FE on ein Ra Sa OO Mp, hte 
Ba sesssscsgstsssssshs sesc8s3s8ssssG ss S33ssss33s 
SR OMA Om ee hh ee A OR RR OOO OR OPC OR OP OO 
SBAOF NOR DA OCOmMNM FH OM oO ir) — Oo a SO tO _ Olt Fish Ore OS ano 
oe ioe Moen fae oe ee et ARRAN ARADO CO 09 83 7) 9 OD OO OD + 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

6 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(B) Leading to an exchange by 
which the opponent gains time in 
the development of his forces on 
the Queen’s side. 

(C) Having once begun to ex- 
change the centre Pawns, he should 
go on with it. 

(D) At the first examination of 
the game I thought that I ought 
to have secured my King’s position 
against any attack with 16.... 
KR to K sq and17....Bto B sq. 
Further analysis, however, con- 
yinced me that I was perfectly 
justified in pursuing at once the 
advantage already obtained. 

(E) The only promising reply: 
it is obvious that 18 P t. P would 
cost a piece on account of 18.... 
P to B6., 

(F) Necessary to avoid the loss 
of a piece threatened with 20 Kt t. 
B ch, Q t. Kt, 21 Pt. P. 

(G) The capture is ill-judged. 
The Rook could not escape—(K t. 
P (?), P to B 6), and it blocked 
completely the action of the K B. 
Black should have continued at 
once with R to BR 3, leaving to the 
opponent the task of freeing his 
own pieces, 

(H) The sacrifice of the exchange 
is not absolutely necessary, but it 
enabled Black to resume at once 
his attack on the Queen’s side, 
which ought to lead to victory 
against any play. 

(I) The only reply which prevents 
Black from advancing the Pawn to 
Kt 6 with decisive effect, ¢.g.- 

25 B to Q 2 (?) P to Kt 6 (!) 
26 Bt.Q P+. B, 

and Black wins by queening one of 
his Pawns. 

(J) An over-finessing move which 
might have led to the loss of the 
game. I had originally intended 
to continue with J1....P t. B, 
but after re-examining the position 
I adopted the text move, overlook- 
ing the power of White’s 34th 

move—cf. note (K),.—White could 

not save the game after: 

BY nee Pt. B 

32 Qt. BP R to R sq (!) 

Various commentators have sug- 

gested here all sorts of continua- 

tions, overlooking the Rook’s move, 

which wins offhand. 

33 P to Kt 4 

He cannot prevent Q to R 8, but, 

he may —_ it by providing 
i 

an escape for his King. 
BS sees Kt to K 8 
34 K to Kt2 

If 34 Bto K 3, then 34... . Q to 

R 8, &e. 

eee Kt t. P 

35 Q to Kt sq 

63 35 QtoQ3or B7,QtwB5, 
ir ¥ 

-). Seren Q to Kt 6, and 
wins. 

(K) I expected here 34 R to Kt 
sq, whereupon I intended to pro- 
ceed with 34... . P t. R, Q ch, 35 
Q t. Q, Kt t. P, 36 K to Bsq, Kt 
to B7. But here again my calcu- 
lation was imperfect, for White 
may secure at least a draw with 37 
B to B sq (!), Kt to R 6, 38 Qt. 
P, Rt. Q, 39 Bt. R, Kt to B 5, 40 
B to B 3. 

(L) A slip: White should have 
come out witha winning advantage 
by first blocking the egress of the 
hostile Knight with 36 P to Kt 4, 
and then continuing with R to Q 
B sq. 

(M) The exchange of Queens 

would lead to a draw, viz. : 

38 Qt.Q Rt.Q 
39 PtoK7 R to Kt8 
40 B to B sq 

White would lose after 40 R to B 
sq (?), K to B2, 41 K to B sq, Kt 
to B 4,42 B to Kt 5, Kt to Q 5, 
and 43... . Kt to Kt 6. 

| KtoB2 

41 Rw K sq K to K sq 
42 K to B sq B4 

nal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT'S GAMES. ” 

(N) Threatening to cut off the 
Bishop with P to Kt 4. 

(O) I think that Black had con- 
siderable chances of scoring @ 
victory after 41....R to Kt 8, 
42 B to B sq, Kt to B aq. 

(P) White should have been 
satisfied with the draw which he 
would secure here and some moves 
later on by exchanging Queens 
and minor pleces, 

(Q) He had a much better 
chance of drawing after 58 Pt. Kt, 
Q to Kt 3 ch, 59 K to Kt 2, Qt. 
B, 60 Q to K 7 ch, K to R aq, 61 
Q to K 3, &., than by the course 
actually adopted, for his Pawns are 
now broken up and the Black 
Knight gets acommanding position. 

(R) 62 K to Bsq, Q toQ8 ch, 
63 K to Kt 2, Kt t. P ch, 64 K to 

same continuation, but two moves 
earlier. 

(8) If 68 K to Kt 2, Black wins 
with 68....Qto R7 ch, 69 K to 
B sq, Kt to Q 7 ch,70 K moves, R 
to K 2 ch, &e. 

(T) 71 Q to Kt 4 would but 
prolong the contest for a few more 
moves, ¢.9.: 

71 QtoKt4 Kt to B 6 ch 
72 K to Kt 2 (best)R to B 2 

73 QteoK4 Kt to Kt 4 
74 QtoK 3 

If 74 Qt. P, Black mates in two 
moves; if 74 Kt. P, then 74.... 
Kt t. Q, 75 Rt. Q, R t. P ch, and 
76.... Rt. B, 

i, ree 

75 K to Baq 
Or 75 Q to Kt 3, Rt. P ch, 76K 
t. R, Kt to K 5 ch, de. 

Q to Kt 5 ch 

R 2, Q to Q 3 ch, would lead to the 78 ces Kt to K 5 
_r 
Game 4, played on the 1st of May. 
RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black, White. Black. 

G, H.Mackzxzte. J, H. Zcxertonr. 20 K Bt. P(F) B to R5 (!) 
1PtK4 PtoK 4 [1st hour. } 
2 KttoKB3 Kt toQB3 21 RtoKsq(G) Bt P 
3 Bto Kt Kt to B38 22 Q Bt. P BtoR5 
4 KttoB3 Bto Kt 5 23 PtoK B4 B to Kt 4 
5 Castles Castles 24 BtoKt3(H) Bt. P ch 
6 PtoQ3 PtoQ3 25 K to B2 Q BR to B sq 
7 BtoKt5(A) Bt. Kt 26 RtoK3 Bto BS 
8 Pt. B Kt to K 2 27 Rto Kt3 B t. B (!) 

9 QwQz2 Kt to Kt 3 28 Pt. B/(I) P to Kt 3 

10 KttoR4(?) Ktt, Kt 29 RtoK B3 Rto B7 ch 
11 Bt. Kt Kt t. P (!) 30 K to Kt 3 P to B3 (J) 
12 Bt. Q (B) Kt t. Q 31 Bt. P KRtoK?7 
13 Bt. P Ktt. KR 82 RtoQ3 Rt. P ch 
14 K t. Kt (C) PtoQR3 33 KtoB3 KRtoQ7 

1, BtoR4(D) PtoQKt4 34 RtoK 3 R to B7 ch 

[1st hour. } 35 KtoK4(K) KRtoK?7 

16 Bto Kt 3 B to Kt 2 36 PtoR4 KtoB2 

17 Bt P K R to K sq 37 Rt R Rt. Reh 

18 PtoQB4 BtB3 38 K to Q8 RtoK B7 

19 PtoKB3(B) PtP {2nd hour. | 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

§ LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black 
39 Bto Kt 5 K to K 3 
40 KtoB4 K to B4 
41 K to BS R to B7 ch 
42 K to Kt 4 K to K 5 
43 KtoR5 K toQ4 
44 Kt. P RtoQ Kt7 
45 K to Kt 6 Rt. P ch 
46 K to B7 KtoK3 
4? K to Q8 R to Kt sq ch 
48 KtoB7 R to K Bsq 
49 BtoR6 Rto B4 

ES 
z. 
3 

(A) 7 Bt. Kt is a little better. 
The text move gives a slight supe- 
riority of position to the second 
player. 

(B) 12 P t. Kt, Q t. B would 
leave White with three isolated 
and double Pawns against four 
uni 

(C) After 14 Bt. P, Kt to Q 7, 
15 Bt. R, Kt. B, 16 R to Q sq, 
Black comes out a piece ahead with 
16....PtoQR3, 17 BtoR4, P 
to Q Kt 4. 

(D) If 15 B to B 4, the reply 
would be 15.... B to Q 2, to be 
followed at the earliest opportunity 
with B to B 8. 

(E) Preparing the attack against 

the White K P; if at once R to K 
sq, then 19.... P to K 5. 

(F) White's sole aim should be 
to prevent the hostile Rooks from 
entering into promising action. He 
should, therefore, retake, I think, 
with the Pawn, which would en- 
able him to block the Queen’s file 
by playing P to B 5. 

(G@) If 21 P to B 3, Black would 
succeed in exchanging Bishops or 
winning a Pawn with 21....Bto 
Kt 4. 

(H) Vainly endeavouring to es- 
cape the fatal exchange. 

(1) There is nothing better, for 
after 28 K t. P ch, K to B sq, 29 
P t. B, Black wins a piece with 
29....Rt.B. If28 Bt. P, then 
28....Rto B7ch, 29 K to B3 
(29 K to B sq, B to B 5 ch, &e.), 
B to Q 4 ch, 30 K to Kt 4, Kt. B. 

(J) A temporary sacrifice which 
enables Black to simplify matters. 

(K) After 35 K to Kt3, R to Kt 
7 ch, White must equally submit 
to the exchange of Rooks, for if 36 
K to B 3, then 36....QRto B 
7 ch,and 37....Rto K 7, and if 
36 K to R 4, then 36.... Rt. P 
ch, 37 K moves, Q R to Kt 7 ch, 
38 K to B 3, R to R 6 ch, Ke. 

— ++ 

Game 5, played on the 3rd of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
A.B. SKIPWORTI. J. H. ZURERTORY. 
1PtQB4 PtoK 3 
2PtoK3 KttoK B3 
3 KttoK B3 PtoQ4 
4 PtoQ4 BtoK2 
5 KttoB3 Castles 
6 BtoQ3 P toQ Kt3 
7 Castles PtoB4 
8 BPtP KPtCP 
9PtoK4(?) BPt.P(A) 
10 QKtt. P Kt t. Kt 

White. Black. 
ll Pt. Kt BtoB3(B) 
12 QtoB2 B to Kt 2 
13 Bt. Pech K to R sq 
14BtoK4(C) BtP 
15 R to Q sq Kt toB3 
16 Bt. B Qt. B 
17 BtoK 3 K RtoQ 
18 QRto Bsgq QR to Bsq(D) 
{1st hour. } 

19 QtoQ2 QP 

[ist hour.] ; 

it i 31 if 1} 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT'S GAMES, 9 

White. Black 
20 Bto Kt 5 Bt.B 
21 Qt. B PtoB3 
22 Q to Kt 6 QtoK3 
23 K to Rsq RtoQ4 
24 Qt Qs PtoR4 
25 QRtoBsq Q BR to Q sq 
26 Qto Kt 3 PtoQ Kt4(E) 
27 RtoBd P to Kt 5 
28 QtoB4 Kt to K 4 
29 Kt t. Kt Qt. Kt 
30 RtoB7 PtoQé 
31 Qto R4ch K to Kt sq 
32 QtoQB4(F) PtoQ7 
33 P to Q Kt 3(G)Qto K 8 ch 
34 Q to B sq R to K sq 

Resigns. 

(A) Black fails to take full advan- 
tage of White's premature advance. 
He should continue with : 

Ds. as PtoBsd 

10 Bto B2 
Or 10 Bto K 2, Kt t. P, 11 Kt t. 
Kt, P t. Kt, and Black will come 
out with a Pawn ahead. 
Ft eee PLP 
11 Ktt. P B to Kt 2 
with the vastly superior position of 
Pawns. 

(B) Ofcourse,ifll.... Qt. P, 
then 12 Kt t. P. 

R 3, B to B sq, 16 Q to B 6, Bto 
Kt 2. 

(D) 18... .Ktto Ktd5 would be 
better, as following continuation 
shows: 
19QtoR4 
Or 19 Q to Q 2, Pt. B, 20 Qt. Kt, 

Q t. Reh, 21 Rt.Q, Rt. Reb, 22 
Kt to K sq, P to Q R 4 (!) 

Or 19 Q to B 4, Q t. Q, 20 Rt. Q, 
P t. B, &e. 

) ee Qt. P 

20 Q t. Kt Pt.B 

21 Pt. P Qt. P 

would win the Q P with 27 Rt. P, 
Rt. R, 28 Ktt. R 

(F) 32 Q to Kt 3 would lead to 
the exchange of Queens, und thus 
prolong the contest. 

(G) Rather tame, but White has 
ne saving move, ey. 
33 K to B sq 
Or 33 R to K B sq,Qt. R, 34 Qt. 
Q, P queens. 

eee Qt. RP 
34 Rt P Q toR 8 ch 
35 K to K 2 R to K sq ch 
36 KtoB3 () to R 4 ch 
37 K to Kt 3 

If 37 P to Kt 4, Black mates in 
two moves, 

(C) 14Q to K B 5 would be met 5 awe Q to Kt 4 ch, 
with 14....P to Kt 3, 15 Qto winning the Rook. 
eee 
Game 6, played on the 4th of May. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White. Black. White. Black. 

J. H. Bracksurye. J. H. Zuxertont. 8 Kt to B sq Pto B38 
1PtoK4 PtoK 4 9QwB2 Kt to Kt 3 
2 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 10 Custles Castles 
3 BtoB4 BtoB4 11 PtoQ4 Q to K 2 (A) 
4PtoB3 Kt to B3 12 Pt. P PtP 
5 PtoQ3 PtwQ3 13 Bt B Pt B 
6 BtoK 3 B to Kt 3 14 Kt to K 3 Bto K 3 
TQEttQ2 KttoK2 15 PtoQR3(B) BtB 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

10 LONDON CHESS 
White. Black. 

16 Ktt.B QtoK 3 

17 KttoQ6(C) Qto Kt5 

18 pe oaty K R to Q 8q 

19 PtoB3(D) QtoK3 

20 KttoB5(E) Ktto B5(P) 

21 KttoQ3(G) Ktt. Kt ch 

22 Rt. Kt P to Kt 3 

23 KttoK 3 Rt RK 

24 Qt.R Kt toQ2 

25 Rto Q sq Kt to B 4 

26 QtoQeG Q to R7 (H) 

27 Q to B 6 (I) Kt to R 5 

28 RtoQ8ch RtR 

29 Qt. Rech K to Kt 2 

30 Kt to Bd ch (J) Pt. Kt 

31 Q to Kt 5 ch 
Drawn Game. 

(A) Up to this point identical 
with a game played between Black- 
burne and myself in the Vieuna 
Tournament. I continued there 
with 11....PtP. The tet 
move is better, I think. 

(B) If 15 Kt to B 5, Black would 
reply 15 .... Q to B 4 with ad- 
vantage. 

(C) The right reply. After 17 
Ktt. Kt P, RtoR 3,18 Kt toR4, 
Black would get some advantage 
with 18....Q to B5,19 PtoQ 
Kt 3, Q t. K P, &. 

(D) 19 Kt t. Kt P would lose the 
Knight on account of 19.... Rt. 
R ch, 20 Q t. R, Qt. Q ch, 21 K 
t. Q, R to Kt sq, 22 Kt toQ 6, R 
to Q aq. 

TOURNAMENT. 

(E) Of course, if 20 Kt t. Kt P, 
then 20.... Rto Q 2. 

(F) Of doubtful value. It would 
have been better, I think, to ex- 
change Rooks, and then to proceed 
with Kt to Q 2. 

(G) The plausible reply 21 P to 
K Kt 3 would have been bad on 
account of the continuation 21.... 

Q to R 7. 

(H) After exchanging Queens, 
Black could not prevent the entry 
of the hostile Knight into his game 
over () B 4 or K Kt 4, 

(1) White might have taken the 
K P without exposing himself to 
any danger, but the capture would 
not affect the result of the con- 
test, e.g. ¢ 
27Qt. KP Kt to Kt 6 ch 

Black may also continue with 
27....PtoR 4, intending 28... 
Kt to R5or Kt 6 ch, or 28.... 
K to R 2 and 29.... Rt. P, 
according to White’s play. 

28 K to B2 Kt to R8 ch 
29 Rt. Kt Qt. R 

30 Kt to Kt 4 PtoR 4 

31 Ktto R 6 ch K toR 2 
32 Kt t. P Qto BS 

33 KttoKt5ch KtoR3 
34 Kt to B7 ch K to R 2, &e 

(J) 30 Kt to Q eq would pro. 
bably lead to a protracted struggle, 
without, however, altering the re- 
sult. 

——*o4— 

Game 7, played on 

the 5th of May. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
J.H. Zoxgntort. J, H. Buackncrse. 6 PtoQ4 BtoQ3 
1PwQB4(a) Pte K3 7 Ki to B38 Castles 
2PtcoK3 KttoK B3 8 PtoQ Kt3 Q Kt to Q 2 
3 KttoK B3 PtoQ Kt 3 9 Bto Kt 2 Q to K 2 (B) 
4BtoK2(A) BtoKt2 10 KttoQKt5 KttoK5 
5 Castles PwQ4 11 Ktt.B Pt. Kt 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORI'’S GAMES. il 

White. Black, 
12 Kt to Q2 Q Kt toB3(C) 
13 PtoB3 Kt t. Kt 
14 Qt. Kt PtP 
15 Bt. P PtoQ4 
16 BtoQ3 K RtoBsq(D) 
17 Q Rto K sq RtoB2 
18 PtoK4 QR to QBsq 
[1st hour.} 
19 PtoK 5 Kt to K sq 
[1st hour. 
20 PtoB4 P to Kt 3 (E) 
21 Rto K 3 (!) (b) P to B 4 (F) 
22 Pt. Pep. Kt t. P (G) 
23 P to B 5 (!) Kt to K 5 
24 Bt. Kt -B 
25 Pt. Kt P toB 7(H)(e) 
26 Pt. P ch 

Pt 
R 

K 

27 PtoQbch Pt 
28 Q to Kt 4 (!) (a) Q 
K 

K 

Kt 

K 

29 Rto B8ch(K\(f) K t. P (L) 
30 Qt. P ch to Kt 2 
31 Bt. Pch -R 

32 Bto Kt 7 ch(!)(g) to Kt sq 
83 Qt. Q Resigns. 

(A) The development of the 
King's Bishop has been discussed 
by various analysts on every possible 
occasion. Here again I cannot pro- 
pose a hard and fast rule, but I may 
state that whenever the Queeu’s 
fianchetto is adopted before playing 
the Q P two squares, the opponent's 
K B ought to be posted at K ue if, 
on the other hand, both players 
have advanced the Q P, the Bicker 
may be then played at once to Q 3. 

(B) The routine move P to B 4 
would be preferable. 

(C) The loss of time occasioned 
by this continuation gives to the 
opponent the first opportunity to 
prepare the following attack. 

(D) Mr. Blackburne underrated, 
I think, the power of the coming 
attack. It would have been more 
prudeut to leave the K RB on the 
King's side, and to oceupy the open 
file with the Q R. 

* then continue with 22 

(E) Of course Black had to stop 
the further advance of the B P. 
Considering, however, that the text 
move weakens his King’s position 
—especially the K R P—without 
gaining any equivalent, I would 
suggest instead of it P to B 4 at 
once, 

(F) 21....Kt to Kt 2 would 
be slightly better; White would 
P to 
K Kt 4. 

(G) He should retake with tho 
Queen, although he would have 
even then a difficult game, e.g. : 

ew Qt. P 
23 Q to K sq Kt to Kt 2 
24 P to K Kt 4 

and White would have unlimited 
time to force a probably irresistible 
attack. 

(H) Notwithstanding its disas- 
trous result, the text move consti- 
tuted Black’s only chance, for if he 
play 25 . P t. P, White forces 
the game with : 

26 R to Kt3 Q to Kt 2 

If 26 .... Qto RQ, then 27 R to 

B 6, winning, for if 27 .... Rto 

Kt 2, then 28 R to R 3. If 26. 

Q to K sq, then 27 Q to R 6, R to 

Kt2, 283 RtoR3. Lf, at last, 26 
'K to Kt 2, then 27 PtoQ5 

ch, P to K 4, 28 P to Q 6. 

27 PtoQs P to K 4 

Or 27....R to B 7, 28 Qt. R, 
Rt. Q, 29B t.Q, Kt. B, 30 Pt. 
P, &e. 

28 Q to Kt 5 
29Rto BG 

(1) If 26....Q t. P, then, of 
course, 27 R to Kt3ch; if 26.... 
K t. P, then 27 K to R.3 ch, K to 
Kt sq, 28 Q to RG. 

(J) The capture of the Queen 
would lead to a mate in seven moves 
with: 

29 Bt. P ch 

R to K sq 

K t. P 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

12 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

30 Rto R3 ch K to Kt 3 

31 Rto Kt 3 ch 

This is the line of play I contem- 
plated when offering the Queen. 
All the commentators proceed with 
31 R to B 6 ch; the difference, 
however, amounts but to a trans- 
position of moves. 

>) ee KtoR3 

If 31....K toR2orR4, mate 

follows in three moves. 

82 Rto B 6 ch K toR4 (R2) 
88 RtoB5(B7)ch K to R38 

34 Bto B4ch K moves 

35 K R mates. 

Black had no saving move: if 28 
.... KRto B4, then 29 Qt. P, 
Rt. P (best), 30 Bt. Pech, Rt. B, 
31 Qt. Rech, Q t. Q, 32 Bt. Q, &e. 
If 28....KRto K sq, then 29 P to 
Q 6, Q to K 3, 30 P to Q 7, &e. 

(K) The shortest and, I may say, 
the prettiest line of play, but White 
wins equally with: 

29 Qt. P Rt. B 
30 RtoB8ech(!) Qt R 
31 Qt. Pch Kt.P 

Or 31....Qto Kt 2,32 Qto K 8 
ch, K t. P, 33 R to R 3 ch, Q to R 
3, 34 Q to B7 eh, K to KR sq, 35 R 
t. Q mate. 

32 Rto R3 ch K to Kt 3 

Or 82....Qto R3, 383 Qto K7 
ch, Kto Kt sq (33.... K to Kt3, 
34 Q to K 6 ch, &e.], 34 R to Kt 3 
ch, K to R sq, 35 Q to K 8 ch, &c. 
—If 32.... K to Kt sq, then 
equally: - 

33 R to Kt 3ch K to R2 

Or 33.... K toR 3, 34 Q to Kt5 
ch, K to R 2, 35 Rto R3ch, &e. 
34 Q to R 5 ch and mates in two 
more moves. 

(L) If 29....Q t. R, White 
replies 30 Bt. P ch, K t. P, 31 
Qt. P ch, and mates in four moves. 

(a) I have elsewhere stated my 
opinion that this is not only by far 
the finest game played in this 
Tournament, but probably within 
the memory of the existing genera- 
tion of Chess-players. It may be 
fairly classed with the great game 
won by Anderssen of Kieseritzky 
more than thirty years ago. 

(b) When Zukertort made this 
move, he bad in his mind’s eye the 
whole combination that follows, 
down to Black’s 28th move. It 
may seem singular that bis oppo- 
nent should have played the next 
seven moves exactly as anticipated, 
but it must be remembered that 
Mr, Blackburne doubled his R’s, 
with the intention of playing to Q 
B 7 as soon as he had got rid of 
the White K 35, and played for that 
Urpose, expecting to win a piece. 
The real beauty of Zukertort's play 
is that he led his opponent into 
this trap, correctly caleulating its 
real results. 

(c) The excited spectators natu- 
rally thought that Zukertort bad 
here lost. a piece and the game, but 
oue confident believer in his skill at 
this apis bet a shilling that he 
would win the game, not having 
the slightest conception of the man- 
ner in which he could escape from 
the apparently impending loss, 

(d) This move literally electrified 
the lookers-on, who were absorbed 
in this contest. I was playing a 
game in the Vizayanagaram Tour- 
nament at the time, when a friend 
whispered in my ear, “The fiend 
has offered his Queen, and it can- 
not be taken without suffering 
mate !” 

(e) When Zukertort played R to 
K 3 at his 21st move, he had caleu- 
lated that 28 R to K sq was Black's 
best move, and had prepared the 
continuation 29 P to Q 6, &. In 
that case, so lost is the position that 
29 R to B 8 ch would equally win, 
but not so rapidly, 

' 
Bit 

VERSITY 

if 

PRINCETON UNE 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 

(f) On this move Mr. Stetnitz 
remarks in Tur/, Field, and Farm, 
“In conjunction with White’s pre- 
vious play, this forms one of the 
most noble combinations conceived 
over the Chessboard,” a remark 

15 

as honourable to the commentator 

as to his great rival. 

(g) “A worthy finish,” says Mr. 
Steinitz, “to one of the most bril- 
liant games on record.” 

OO 

Gawe 8, pliyed on the 7th of May, 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

J. H, ZUKERTORT. Da. Noa. 

1 KttoK BS PtoK3 

2PtoQ4 KttoK B3 

3 PtoK 3 PtoQ Kt3 

4BtoK2 B to Kt 2 

5 Castles BtoK 2 

6 PtoB4 Castles 

7 KttoB3 PtoQ4 

8 Pt QKt3 PtoB4 

9 Bto Kt 2 Q Kt to Q 2 

10 Kt to Q2 R to K sq 

ll BtoB3 B Pt. P (?) 

12K Pt.P B to Kt 5 (A) 

13 R to K sq Kt to B sq (B) 

14 Pw QR3 BtoK 2 

1 PwQkKt4 Kt to Kt 3 

16 PtoBd KttoB5 
[1st hour.] 

17 Kt to Kt 3 RtoQB sq(C) 

18 QtoQ2 Pto K Kt4 

[1st hour. | 

19 PtoK R4 K Kt toR4(?) 

20 Bt. Kt (D) Ktt. B 

21 RPt.P Bt. P 

22 Q to Q sq Kt to BS 

23 P to Kt 5 K to R sq 

244 PtoBé B to R sq 

25 Kt to K 2 R to K Kt sq 

26 BtoBsq(E) Ktt. P(!) 

27 Kt. Kt Bt. B ch 

28 Kt to Kt 3 Bto B5 

29 QtoB3 QtcQ3 

30 R to R sq R to Kt 2 
[2nd hour. ] 

31 RtoR3 PtoB3 

32 QRtoRsq Bt. P (F) 

33 Pt. B Rt. P 

34 QtoQ3(G@) QRtoB2 

White. 
35 Kt toQ2 

[2nd hour.] 

39 Q to Kt 3 (1) 

CAA ARO 
= 

¥ 
- co 
eo! 
Como 
gv. 

2e58 StS: 

= 
Ss) 

Seecaece 
qr on © 
OR ROCCO AR 

= 
sor"te 
Bim Up E 

p oe 

— 

O_OROOOOoO Ome 
SSSFSSSSSES 
ORO WHS 
2 » Beco CO coe 
ae cx 

OCOoOF FO 

(A) An inferior continuation 
which invariably results in loss of 
time—ef. games 17 and 28 of this 

collection. 

(B) It would be more in the 
spirit of the position to concentrate 
the forces on the Queen's side. 

(C) With the object of prevent- 
ing the further advance of the 

hostile Q Kt P. 

(D) The first move in a series of 
exchanges which enables White to 
alvanece his Pawns and to imprison 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

14 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

the adverse Q B. There was no 
reason, however, why White should 
not first accept the proffered sacri- 
fice of a piece with 20 P to Kt 3, 
for whether Black reply 20....K 
to R sq or 20.... Pt. RP, his 
attack would be easily met. 

(E) A slip: I intended to ex- 
change Knights first, and then to 
continue with the text move. 

(F) Black gets three Pawns for 

a piece and a good position on both 
flanks. Any other course would 
permit White to bring his K Kt 
into play over B sq and Q 3. 

(G) Not to much purpose. White 
should play at once Kt to Q 2, for 
if Black capture the Kt, White 
replies Q to Q 3, recovering the 
piece or mating. 

(H) Threatening 39 Rt. P ch, R 
t. R, 40 Q to K 8 ch, K to Kt 2, 
41 Kt to B 5 mates. 

(I) Weak: 39 K to Kt sq, fol- » 

lowed by Q R to KR 2, would have 
been better. 

(J) 40....P to B 4 would be 
met with 41 R to R 5 or R 6, 
either move sufficing to prevent 

the threatened loss of the Knight. 
The text move is rather weak, but 
in justice to my opponent I must 
mention that he had to make six 

moves in less than a minute and a 
half. 

(K) 46....R to B 6 was 
tempting but useless, for White 
would reply 47 Q to R 5, threaten- 
ing 48 Kt to K 7.—It would have 
been better, however, to play 46 
oss Qt ES. 

(LL) If now Q to K 3, White gets 
in a few moves an irresistible attack, 
beginning with 48 K Kt to B 5, 

(M) 50 Q to K 4, threatening 
to continue with 51 P to B4, or 
51 Kt to Q 6, according to Black's 
defence, would have proved 
stronger. 

(N) A blunder, probably due to 
pressure of time: Black had all but 
exhausted his fourth hour. The 
game was, however, now decidedly 
in my favour, considering forces 
and position. If 53....Q to K 
Kt sq, then 54 Kt to R6, Rto Kt 2 
(forced), 55 Q toB 5,Q to K B sq 
or Kt sq, 56 Kt to Kt 4, &e. 

—— + 2a 

Game 9, played on the 8th of May. 

TWO KNIGHTS’ 

White. Black. 
J, H, Zox enrort. W. Srernitz, 
1PtoK4 PtoK4 
2 KttoK BS KttoQB3 
3 KttoB3 P to K Kt3 
4PtoQ4 Ft. 2 
5 Ktt. P Bto Kt 2 
6 BtoK 3 Kt to B3 
7 BtoK 2 Castles 
8 Castles R to K sq(A) 
9 QtoQ3 Q to K 2 (B) 
10 K Kt to Kt 5 PwoQ3 
11 Bto Kt 5 Kt to K 4 (C) 
12 QtoQ2 Bto K3 
13 QtoB4(D) KRtoQBsq(E) 

OPENING. 

White. Black. 
14 QtoR4 P to B 3 (F) 
15 P to B4(G) Kt to Q2 (H) 
16 Kt to Q4 P to K R3(!) 
17 Kt t. B (1) Q t. Kt 
18 Bt. P Bt. B 
19 Qt B Ktt. P 
20 Bto Kt 4 QtB 
21 Ktt. Kt Q to B 4 (J) 
22 Q RtoK sq(K) Rto K sq 
23 RtoK3(!) Rt. Kt(L) 
24 RtoR3 QtB3 
25 QtoR 7 ch K to B sq 
26 Qto R8 ch K to K2 
27 Qt. R Qto Q5ch 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 15 

White. Black. 
28 KtoRs Rt. P 
29 RtoKsych(M) RtoK5 
80 Rt. Reh(N) QUR 
31 Qt. RP P to Kt 3 
Resigns 

(A) Mr. Steinitz condemned this 
move directly after the gamo, 

(B) This is decidedly weak: 
Black, I think, overlooked White's 
reply, or at least he underrated its 
force. 

(C) If 12....B to K 3, then 
13 P to B 4. 

(D) Mr. Steinitz gave as White's 
best continuation, 3 P to B 4, and 
if13.... Kt to B 5, then 14 Q to 
Q 4. Ithink, however, that Black 
could then extricate himself out of 
his difficulties with 14....P to 
B4,15QtoB2,PtoK R3,16B 
to R 4, P to R 38. 

(E) Foreed, for White threat. 
ened 14 Kt it. BP. 

(F) Involving the loss of a Pawn. 
The sacrifice was certainly not 
sound, nor do I think absolutely 
necessary. 

(G@) When adopting this con- 
tinuation, I did not see the force of 
Black’s 16th move—ef. note (I). 
Otherwise I would have played 
15 Ktt.Q P, and if 15....Qt. 
Kt—Black’s best reply—then 16 B 
t. Kt, with a Pawn ahead and the 
better-developed game. 

(H) OF course, not 15.... P t. 
Kt, for White wins a piece after 
16 Pt. Kt. 

(I) I saw now that I could not 
play 17 B t. P on account of the 
fatal reply 17....Kt to Q 4, 
which would have won a piece. 

(J) A fine reply: the plausible 

move 21.... P toQ4 would turn 
out very inferior on account of 22 
Kt to Q 6, R to B sq (best), 23 Q 
R to K sq, and 24 R to K 7. 

(K) 22 Kt to Kt 3 was equally 
promising. 

(L) The only reply : Black’s 
game would prove defenceless after 
23,....QtoR4, 24 Q t.Q, Pt. 
ee R to Kt 3 ch, and 26 Kt 
t. P. 

(M) A blunder: there was but 
one reply, 29 R to K Kt sq, 
which would preserve White's supe- 
riority. Whether Black could then 
draw or not is beyond the margin 
of analytical research. I must limit 
myself to the task of proving that 
Black could not capture another 
Pawn with impunity, eg. : 

29 R to Kt sq Qt P 

This and Black’s next move are 
given by Mr. Steinitz in his anno- 
tations to the game as leading to a 
draw. 

30 RtoR8 Kt to B 3 
31 RtoK sqeh KttoK 5 

If31....R to K 5, White wins 
offhand with 32 R to K 8 ch (!), 
Kt t. R, 33 Rt, Reh, and 34 Q 
t. Kt. 

32 Pto Kt3 Qto BG 

If 32....Rto Kt 5, then 33 R to 
K 8 ch, K to B3, 34Q BR t. Kt, 
and if 34....Rt. R, then 35 Q to 
R 8 ch, and 86Qt.Q. If382.... 
Q to Kt 5, then 33 P to B 3. 

33 Rt. Ktch Rt. R 
34 Q to K 8 ch K to B3 
35 Qt. R, and wins. 

(N) Of course, White would still 
draw at least with 30 R to K 
Kt sq. 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

16 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 10, played on the 10th of May. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

White Black. 
J. H. ZCKERTORT. H. E. Brep, 
1PtoK4 PtoKk 4 
2 KttoQB3 Bto B4 
3 PtoB4 PtoQ3 
4 Kt to B3 KttoK B3 
5 BtoB4 B to K 3 (?) 
6 BtB Pt. B 
7 rte Pt. P 
8QtoK2(A) KttoB3 
9QtoB4(B) QtoK2 
10 KttoK Kt5 KttoQ5 
ll Kt to Kt 5 Kt t. P (C) 
12 Ktt. Pch(D) K toQ2(E) 
13 Q Ktt. P Q Kt t. Kt 
14 Kt t. K Kt B to Kt 3 
15 Q to Q 5 ch K to B sq 
16 PtoQ3 Ri to Q sq 
17QtP Bto B2 
18 QtoK B45(F) Rto Bsq 

lst hour. | 
19 QtoR 3 K to Kt sq 
20 BtoQ2 PtoQR4 
21 Castles RtoR3 
2 KRtoBsqg RtoBsg 

[Ist hour. | 

23 Q Rto K sq (G)B to K 4 
24 KttoB3 BtoB3 
25 R to K 4 Q KR to B 3(!) 
26 QteoB5(H) QtcQ3 
27 K Rto K sq Kt to B2 
28 BtoB4 Q to B sq 
29 Qt.QRP PtoQ Kt3(I) 
30 Q to Kt 4 Q to Q sq 
31 RtoK 6 Bt. Kt 

[2nd hour.] 
32 Pt. B Q to Q4 
33 Rt. R QtR 
34 RtoK7 Resigns (J) 

(A) If 8 Kt t. P, Black recovers 
the Pawn with 8....B to Q 5, 
9 Kt to B3,Bt. Kt, 10 Kt Pt. B, 
Kt t. P. 

(B) Better than 9 Q to Kt 5,Q 
to Q3(!), 10 Qt. P,R to Q Ktsq, 
11 Qto RG, Rto Kt 3, 12QtoK 
2 [12 Q to R 4, Rto Kt 5], Castles, 
with a fine developed game. 

(C) A trap: Black’s best course 

would be 

BE Gravee Castles, Q R 

12 PwQ3 

If12 Ktt. Kt, thenl2.... Rt. Kt. 

| Ore Kt t. Kt 

13 Qt. Kt Kt to Kt 5 
(D) Of course, not 12 K Ktt. Kt 

on account of 12....Q to R 5ch, 

and if 13 Kt toKt 3, then 13.... 
Kt to B 6 ch, ke. 

(E) Playing, I suppose, under 
the idea that White will capture 
the Rook, whereupon Black would 
get a won game with Q t. Kt. 
Black should have proceeded with 
12....Qt. Kt, 13 Ktt. Kt, R to 
Q B ag [13....Ktt. P ch (7), 
14Qt. Kt, B to B7 ch, 15 K toQ 
sq we 14 K to Q sq, B to K 2, 15 
Q+t.Q,Rt.Q,16 P to B 3. He 

| had, however, even then the much 

inferior game on account of the 
bad position of his Pawns. 

(F) With two Puwns ahead but 
the inferior development, White 
had to play a strictly defensive 

game. 

(G) Preparing a counter-attack 
by occupying another open file. 

(H) Doubling the Rooks would 
just afford to the opponent a fine 
opportunity for a perplexing attack 
with one of his ingenious sacri- 
fices, ¢.q. + 

26 K Rto K sq Bt. Kt 

27 Bt B R t. B (!) 
28 Pt. R Q to R 6 ch 
29 K to Q sq Q t. BP, &e. 

The text move provides for this 
contingency, for White would now 
win easily after exchanging Queens 
with 30 Q to K 5 ch. 

(I) If 29 .... R to R 8, then 
30 Qt. Kt ch, Rt. Q, 31 RtoK8 
ch, &e. ' 

(J) Black cannot prevent the ex- 
change of allremaining pieces, which 
White will force with Q to Q 6. 

| fron 

NIVERSITY 

PRINCETON U 

White. 

J. H. Zoxerrort. 

—eee 
ae 
oe 
co 

AR AQ Rh 
abit OO 
ZO 
co 

cr ce ce 

HURO Wt 
"Sse 

21 Ktt 
22 Pt. P(C) 
23 RtoR6 

sss 
ad -b--} 
oon 

o> co 
* 
a 

SRLSSASSRSRRESLESSENS 
B 

APOOOCOO OOOO KR ROOOO 

SSssssssssse 

ARO 

sec 

a 

re 
cS 

al 
co 
mg 
~~ 
oS 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES, 17 

Game 11, played on the 11th of May. 
FRENCH DEFENCE. 

Black. 

A. SEuuway. 

SeSssstesum Kt lsses 
S Re SURO OO 
woe ne # ral 

Oe oe Te UD Bi eo by 
— = a" 
S 3 

AR ROD ROD RRR RVR RRP ROW TCA UR ROKON 
* sss 
a 
eg 89 Zz 

Seéssssss 
to 

oss 
RR ROOD rm 
@ bo bo op te 

to K8ch(K) 

HOR ROCOOO 

= 
a) 
ro 
= 
& 

White Black. 
47 Kt. R Qt. P ch 
48 K to R3 Q to B8 ch 
49 KtoR4 Q to R8 ch 
50 QtoR3 Qto K 5ch 
51 P to Kt 4 Qto R2ch(M) 
52 K to Kt 3 QtoQéch 
53 KtoR2 Q to Q7ch 
54 Q to Kt 2 Qto B5ch(N) 
55 Q to Kt 3 Resigns (QO). 

(A) The first nine moves have 
been played innumerable times. 
The usual continuations have been 
10 R to Ksq, or 10 BtoK 3. The 
text move may be recommended, T 
think, for it enables White to car: 
on operations on both wings, which 
may supplement each other. 

(B) I played the Q Kt for the 
purpose of clearing the third row 
and bringing eventually the Q R 
on the King’s side, if necessary. 
It would have been better, how- 
ever, to play the K Kt, for nothing 
could then prevent the planting of 
the Knight at Q 6. 

(C) Premature: I should have 
played the Queen and then doubled 
the Rooks. 

(D) Mr. Sellman rightly pointed 
out that this maneuvre put the 
Knight for a considerable time out 
of play. He proposed instead of 
the text move the superior con- 
tinuation 24... . Kt to Q 2. 

(E) Intending 28 Q to Kt 6, 
and if 28....Q+t.Q,29Pt.Q,R 
to Kt sq, White wins with 30 R to 
R 6, 31 Kt to B 5, &e. 

(F) Black has no satisfactory 
defence: after 29....Q t. Q, 30 
Rt. Q ch, K to Kt sq, White wins 
with 31 RtoQ B7 or 31 Kt to K 
6. If 29....Rto Q Bsq, then 
30 Q to Kt 6; if, at last 29.... 
Q to Kt 2, then 30 BR to R 6. 

¢ 

| iL ] 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

18 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(G) Of course, if30.... Rto Kt 
sq, then 31 R to R 7, winning easily. 

(H) White threatened the fatal 
rejoinder R to R 8, 

(1) 34 R to R 8 would be 
“pretty” but harmless, for Black 
would reply 34....Qto B4(!). 

(J) The exchange of Queens on 
this or the next move would finally 
win, but still it was not advisable 
on account of the weak position of 
White’s Q Kt P and P, while 
the Black King was well in play. 

(K) A futile attempt to draw by 
perpetual check, but had Black 
any better chance ? 

(L) Of course, if 46....QtoK 
5 ch, then 47 Qt. Q, P t.Q, 48 R 
to B 8, &e. 

(M) If 51....Q to K 8 ch, 
then 52 K to R5 [52 Qto Kt 3(?), 
Q te R 8 ch, and Black draws}, Q 
to Q 7, 53 R to R 7 ch, &e. 

(N) Or 54....QtoR3 ch, 55 
K to Kt 3, Qto K 6 ch, 56 QtoB 
3,Q to K 8 or Kt 8 ch, 57 K to 
R 3. 

(O) For the checks will be ex- 
hausted after 55....QtoQ7 ch 
[55....Qto R3ch, 56 K to Kt 
2},56 K to R3,Qto R38 ch, 57 K 
to Kt 2, Q to Q7 ch, 58 Q to B 2. 

—en -— 

Game 12, played on the 14th of May, 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
J. H. Zvxerrorr. 8. Rosertriat, 
1 KttoK B38 PtoQ4 
2Pto.Q4 Ptok 3 
38 PtoK 3 KttoK B3 
4PtoB4 B to K 2 
5 KttoB3 Castles 
6 Bto K 2 PtoB4 
7 Castles Kt to B 3 
8 PtoQ Kt 3 Kt to K 5(? 
9 Bto Kt 2 BP t, P (?) 
10 Kt t, Kt (!) Pt. Kt 
ll Ett. P P to B38 (A) 
12 Ktt. Kt P t. Kt 
13 QtoB2 PtokK B4 
14 P to B 5 (B) Q to B 2 
15 PtoQ Kt4 R to Kt sq 
16 Bt QB3 BtoB3 

[ist hour. ] 

17 QR to Q sq BtoQ2 
18 Bt. B Rt. B 
19 Rt Q6(!) Rt. P (C) 
20 QtoQ2 R to Kt 2 
21 BtoR6 B to K sq 
22 Bt. R Qt B 
23 R to Q 8(D) R to B sq 
24 Q to Q6 QtoK B2 
25 R to Kt sq P to K 4 
26 K Rto Kt 8 P to B 5 (EB) 

White. Black. 
27 Pt. P Qt.BP 
2QtRch(!) KtQ 

29 Rt. Bch K to B 2 
30 Rto BB ch K to K 3 
31 Rt. Q PtR 

82 RtoQs Resigns. 

(A) Mr. Rosenthal plays this 
game below his usual standard. 
He has already a bad game, but 
the text move loses time on the 
King’s side and gives to the ad. 
versary the opportunity to break 
up completely the Queen’s side. 

(B) Blocking the action of both 
hostile Bishops and opening a fine 
square for his K Bat Q B 4. 

(C) A blunder which costs the 
exchange, but Black’s game was 
lost, whatever he play. His pieces 
are blocked, and his Pawns very 
weak, while the opponent com- 
mands the board. 

(D) The entry of the Rooks puts a 
speedy end to all further resistance. 

(E) Aningenious attempt to save 
a hopeless battle. Any quiet move 
must lead to the loss of the Bishop. 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 19 

Game 13, played on the 15th of May, 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. 
J. H, Zoxerrort. S. WINAWER. 
1PtoK4 PtoK 4 
2 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 
3 Bto Kt 6 Kt to B3 
4, Castles Kt t. P 
5 PtoQ4 Bto K 2 
6 QtoK 2 Kt to Q 3 
7 Bt. Kt Kt Pt. B 
8 Pt. P Kt to Kt 2 
9 KttoQ4(A)_ Castles (B) 
10 KttoQB3 Kt to B4 
ll RtoKsq(C) KttoK3 
12 BtoK 3 Kt t. Kt 
13 Bt. Kt P to B 3 (D) 
14 QR to Q sq rey 
15 Bt. P BtoB3 
16 QtoB4ch K to R sq 
{1st hour. } 
17 RtoQ3 Bt. B 
18 Rt.B QtoB3 
19 RtoB3 B to R 3 (E) 
20 Rt. Q(F) Bt. Q 
21 Rt. Reh Rt. R 
22 RitoK7 R to Q sq 
Sree! 
23 PtoQ Kt Bto K 3 
24 Kt to R 4 K to Kt sq 
25 KttoBsd B to B 4 (@) 
26 PtoKB3 K to B sq 
27 RtoK 2 PtoQ3 
28 KttoR6 R to K sq 
29 RtoQ2(H) BtoBsq 
30 KttoKt4(1) BtoQ2 
31 Ktto R6 B to B sq 
{2nd hour.] 
32 Kt to Kt 4 BtoQ2 
33 Kt to R6 Rto K 2 
34K to B2 B to B sq 
35 Kt to Kt 4 Bt Q2 

Drawn Game. 

(A) Introduced by Winawer 
against myself in the second tie- 
e in the Paris International 
ournament, 1878. Neumann used 

to play 9 R to Q sq, whilst I played 
against Anderssen 9 P to B 4, 
which was adopted by the leading 
analysts. 

(B) If 9.... Kt to B 4, White 
may play 10 Kt toQ B83, and if 
10.... Bto R 3, then 11 Q to Kt 
4, for the capture of the Rook would 
be met with 12 Qt. P, RtoK B 
sq, 13 K t. B, Kt to K 3, 14 Kt to 
B 5 (!), with the superior game.— 
A very good reply to9.... Kt to 
B 4 would be also 10 R to Q sq, 
followed whether Black reply 10 
....Bto Kt2 [Black's Q B P is 
attacked] or B to R 3, with 11Q 
to Kt 4, preventing Black from 
Castling—11 .... Castles (?), 12 
B to B 6. 

(C) I might have continued with 
11 B to K 3, forif1l.... BtoR 
3, then 12 Q to Kt 4, recovering 
the exchange with 13 B to R 6. 

(D) Opening the game on the 
King’s side rather prematurely, I 
think. 

(E) A very pretty resource, 
which, however, should have failed 
against best play. 

(F) Here I failed to secure the 
gain of an important Pawn by the 
following line of play, which I 
pointed out myself shortly after 
the close of the game. 

20 QteoBS QtoQsq 

If20....Q to Q 3, the continua- 
tion is similar. 

21 Rt. Rech Qt R 
22 Qt. Qch Rt. Q 
2 Rt QRS R to K sq 
24 PtoB3 BtoB5d 
25 Rt P, &e. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

20 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(@) Of course, he dare not play 
25....K toBsgq, for White would 
reply 26 Rt. B, P t. R, 27 Kt t. P 
ch, and 28 Kt t. R. 

(H) After 29 Rt. R ch, K t. R, 
30 Kt t. P ch, K to Q 2,31 Kt to 

R 6, Bt. P, Black would have the 
superior game, 

(I) If 30 Kt t. P, Black wins 
with 30....Rto K 2,31 Kt toR 
8, R to Q 2(!), and 32....Bto 
Kt 2. 

+04 — 

Game 14, played on the 16th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 

S. WINAWER. J. H. ZvkERTORI, 86 Pt. P P to Kt 6 
1PtoK4 PtoK4 37 KtoQ2(M) Kto B5(!) 
2 KttoK B3 Kt toQ Be 38 PtoBd Bt. P 
3 Bto Kt Kt to B3 Resigns. 

4 Castles Kt t. P 
5 PtoQ4 P toQR3(A) (A) Introduced by Morphy 
6 Bt. Kt (B) QPtB against L. Paulsen in the New 
7 Qto K 2 Bto K B4 York Tournament, 1857. The con- 
8 Pto K Kt4 (C) BtoKt3 tinuation was almost forgotten 
9PtoKR4 Q to Q2(D) until it was adopted by Rosenthal 
10 Ktt. P Qt. P against me in our fifth match 
ll KttoK B3(E) QtoQ2 game. 
12 Kt to Kt5 Q to K2 (B) Paulsen and I continued 
13 R to K sq Castles (!) with 6 B to Q 3. The variation 
14 Kt t. Kt Qt. Kt is analysed by Herr Berger; sce 
15 KttoB3(F) Qt. Q(G) Chess-Monthly, Vol. TV., pp. 185 
16 fist : PtoK R4 ani 7: 
st hour. . 
(C) The text move, I think, com. 
Hf “ ni Ey ted mete promises White's King’s flank with- 
19 ORtoK RtoK2 &q out any equivalent in material or 
20 at kta. QRto Ks position, 8 P t. P would about 
[1st hour. } (D) Herr Berger continues with 
22 Rt. R RtR 9....PtoB3; compare the fol. 
23 Rt. R Bt R lowing note. 
24 Bt. P P to Kt4 (E) After 11 Kt t. B, R P t. Kt, 
25 Kt to K 2 B to Q 3 (T) 12 Kt to B 3, P to K B 4, 13 B to 
26 PtoR3(J) PtQBé4 Kt 5—a line of play proposed by 
27 Kt to Kt 3 B to Kt 3 Herr Berger 4n a private letter to 
a = to A 5 _ a me—Black would continue with : 
4 B 
30 PtoBA Pto BS EN wks 
2nd hour.) . 
31 B to B 6(K) PtoR4 If 14Q R to Q sq, then 14....Q 
, r r to K 4; if 14K R to K sq, then 
32 Kt toK 2 P to Kt 5 ; 
38 PtP PtP 14.... Bt. B, 15 P t. B, Castles, 
34 K to B38 (L) K to Q 4 Q R, with the better game, 
35 K to K 3 P to B 6 (!) 0 ea Kt. B 
Iriginal trom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 21 

15 PtoR5 QR to K sq 
16 RPtP 

If 16 K R to K sq, then equally: 
16 ass K to B 3 (!) 
17 Q&w B3 QtoK4 
18 Kt t. Kt ch Q t. Kt 

19 Qt. Pch 

Or 19 Qt. Q, Rt. Q, 20P to KB 
3, Rto K 7, &. 

19 2.0. t. 

20 Pt.Q RtoK5 

21 K to Kt2 K t. P, &. 
(F) Of course, if 15 Q t. Q, B t. 

Q, 16 Rt. B, then 16....RtoQ 
8 ch, 17 K to Kt 2, Rt. B. 

(@) I might have safely con- 

(K) White wanted to open the 
square Kt 7 for his Knight—e.g., 32 
P to B 5 ch, Bt. P, 33 Kt t. P, 
threatening 34 Kt to Kt 7 ch—it 
would have been better, however, to 
effect the same purpose with 31 B 
to B 3, which would have delayed 
the advance of the hostile Q R P. 

(L) One of Mr. Winawer’s “ wily” 
statagems. White tbreatens now 
35 P to B 5 ch, winning a piece if 
35....B t. P, and mating, if 35 
.»»- Kt. P, with 36 Kt to Q 4. 

(M) Of course, a mistake which 
is immediately fatal, but White 
would but prolong the contest, 
without averting the defeat, with : 

tinued with 15....Qt. P, for if P to B4 ch Kt P 
16 Q to K 3, then 16....P to Kt nee BtoQ6é 
3. ee Pawn ahead and two 39 Kt to Kt 3 
Bishops, however, I thought it best ‘ 
to avoid all complications by ex- aneabe Ren Lg peat 
changing Queens. B to Kt 2, B to K Kt 3, 42 BtoR 
(H) But here I missed the sj, B to R 6, &. Or 39 Kt toB 
strongest continuation, viz.: 17... sj, B to B 4 ch, 40 K to Q 2 [40K 
R to Q 5, 18 P to B 4 (18 R to Q8 to B 8], Bto Kt 5 ch, 41 K to K3, 
ch, K toQ 2,19 Rto Kt 8, Pto Kt3, B to K B4, 42 Kt to K 2, B to Kt 
20BtoK 3, Rto Kt5 ch, 21K 5, 43 Kt toQ 4, BtoQB6. 
to B sq, Bt. P, 22 R to B sq, B to 39 BtoB4ch 
Q 6 ch, 3K to Ksy, RERP, sk icga BtoQs 
&c.], B to Q 3, 19 Bto K 3, Rto 41 K to B aq 
B5,20RtoK Bag Ptokt4, 21 e41 Bt. B, Kt. B, 42 K to B sq, 
PRD LS ERS, then 42.... K to B6. 
: (1) Necessary to re White 1} ere B to K 6 ch 
rum continuing with 26 Kt to Kt 42 K to Bto B7 ch 
3, and, if 26....Bto Kt 3, then 3 Kase BtoQs. 
27 P to B 4, 44 Bt. B Kt.B 
(J) Black threatened 26.... P 45 K toQ2 BtoQ6 
to Kt 5 and 27....Bto Kt 8. 46 K to B sq K to B6 
+ 
Game 15, played on the 17th of May. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
J. H. ZuKerronrt. B. Exoursen, 5 PwoQ3 Ptr Q3 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 4 6 BtoK3 B to Kt 3 
2 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 7QKttoQ2 Castles 
3 BtoB4 BtoB 4 8 KttoBsq(A) PtoQ4 
4PtoB3 Kt to B3 9 Pt.P Kt t. P 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black (A) 8 Bto K Kt 5 would be the 
10 Bt. Kt (B) Qt. B strongest continuation. 
11 BiB KPtB (B) This and the following ex- 
12 Kt to K 3 Q to Kt 4 change are weak: White should 
13 QtoK 2 BtoK 3 have played 10 Q toQ 2. This is 
14 PwQR3 QR to Q sq the weakest of all the games played 
15 QR to Q « PtoKR3 in the Tournament, 
16 RwoQ2Z(C) KttoK2 (C) If 16 Castles, 16....P to 
17 Castles (D) Kt to Kt 3 K 5. 
13 PtoK Kt3 R to K sq (D) 17 P to Q 4 would have been 
19 PtoQ4 Qt.Q 4 much better; after the foreed ex- 
: 0Rt.Q BtoR6 change of Queens, White would 
21K RtoKeqg PtP have slightly the better game, on 
22 Kt t. P F Pto QB 4 account of his two Kuights and 
23 Kt to B3 Pto Kt4 the freer position of his King for 
Drawn Game. the end-game. 
i 
Game 16, played on the 18th of May. 
RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black 
Ik. ENG Lise. J. H. Zcoxertort, 27 QtoB2 Kt toQ 3 
1PtoK4 PtoK 4 2 PtoKR3 P to Kt3 
2 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 29 Rt, Rech Rt. R 
3 Bto Kt 5 Kt to B3 [1st hour. | 
4Pt0Q3 Kt to K 2 (A) 30 R to K sq Kt to Kt 4 
5 KttoB3(B) Ktto Kt3 31 Ktt. Kt Q t. Kt 
6 Castles B to K 2 (C) 32 Rt. Reh Qi. KR 
7PoQ4 PGP 33 B to Q 4 (J) QtoR5 
B8QtP Castles (D) 34 QtoK 3 Qt. BP 
9 Pio K 5 Kt to K sy 35 BtoB3 PwKR3 
10 Kt toQ5 PtoB3 36 PtoQR3 
11 Ktt. Beh QQ t. Kt Drawn Game. 
12 Bto Kt 5 Q to K 3 (EB) 
13 Bio QB4 PtoQ4 (A) Mr. Mortimer claims to be 
l4 Pt. Pop. Qt. P the inventor of this move. I adopted 
15 QtoB3 Kt to B 2 (F) it on account of its novelty. 
16 QR to Q sy Kt to Q4 (B) After 5 Ktt. P, P to B 3, 
17 Bt. Kt Pt. B White must lose a piece for two 
18 Qt0oQ4(G) QtoB3(H) Pawns. 
a “4 os 0 : _ re e : (C) It would be better, perhaps, 
a ; to continue with 6....PtoB3 
21 QteoQ2 QB to Q sq ‘ 4 
22 Kt to Q 4 QtoQ2 7BtoQ B4,B to K 2. 
23 K R to K sq Kt to K 4 (D) If 8....P to B 3, White 
24 QtoB4 B to Kt 3 would get a troublesome attack 
25 Q to Kt 3 K R to K sq with 9 P to K 5, 
[1st hour. ] (E) Best: if 12....P to B 8, 
26 P to B31) KttoB2 White gets the superior game with 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES, 23 

13 B to B 4 ch, K toR sq, 14 P 
t. P, Kt t. P, 15 K R to KE sq,Q 
to Q sq, 16 Q to Q 6. 

(F) Black gets now an isolated 
Pawn, but the continuation enables 
him to bring his forces into play, 
and it disposes of one of the hostile 
Bishops. 

(G) Herr Englisch pointed out 
that he might have won a move by 
playing at once Q toQ 2—compare 
White’s 21st move—but this gain 
would not amount to anything— 

viz.: 18 Q to Q 2, Q to Kt 3,19 P 

to Q Kt 3,B to K 3, 20 Kt to Q4, 
Q RB to B sq. 

(H) The right rps AE LS ack fa 
B to K 3, then 19 P to B 4 (!) 

(I) 26 P to B 4 was very tempt- 
ing, but injudicious, for it would 
open a commanding square, K 5, 
to the hostile Knight. 

(J) White could prevent the loss 
of a Pawn by continuing with 33 
Q to Q 2, 34 K to B 2, &€e., but the 
loss is immaterial on account of the 
Bishops of different colour. 

ow 

Game 17, played on the 21st of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

J. H, ZvKentonr, B. Exe itacn, 
1 KttoK B38 PtoQ4 
2PwQ4 PtwK3 

3 PtoK3 PtoQB4 
4BtoK2(A) KttoK B38 
5 Castles KttoB3 

6 PtoQ Kt3 Bto K2 

7 Bto Kkt2 Castles 

8 PtoB4 B Pt. P (?) 
9K PtP P to Q Kt3 
10 Q Kt to Q2 (B) B to Kt 2 
1l Rto Beg Ri to B sq 
12 BtoQ3 B to R383 (C) 
13 KRtoKsq(D) KttoQR4(E) 
14 Qto K2 B to Kt 5 
15 PteoQR3 Bto Q3(F) 
16 P to B 5 (!) Bt. B 

17 Qt. B B to B 5 (G) 
18 Rt B2 Kt to Bs 
19 PtoQ Kkt4 B to Kt sq 
20 P to Kt 5 Kt to K 2 
21 PtoQR4 Kt to Kt 3 
22 P t. P (H) Q t. P (1) 
23 BtoR3 BtoQ3 
24 PtoRS5 Q to Kt sq 
25 BtoB5d Kt to Q 2 
26K RtoQBsq KttoK 2 
27 Kt to Kt3 K R to K sq 

[ lst hour. | 
28 P to Kt3 PtoK R38 

White. Black. 
29 Bt. B Qt. B 
30 Kt to BS Kt to B sq 

(Ist hour. | 

31 Kt toK 5 PtoB3 
82 Ktto B6 Kt t. Kt 
33 Kt to Kt 7 Q to Kt 5 (J) 
34 Pt. Kt PtoK 4 
35 RtoB5(K) PtP 
36 KttoQ6(L) RtoK 8 ch 
37 Rt R Qt. Rech 
38 K to Kt 2 Q to K 2(!) 
39 Ktt. R Qt RK 
40 QtoR6(M) PtoQ6(N) 
41 Qt.QP Qt. KR P 
42 KttoK7ch KtoB2 
43 Kt t. P (O) QtoB4 
44 PtoB7 Q to B3 (P) 
45 P to B 3 (Q) Kt to K 3 
46 Q to Kt 3 K to K sq (R) 
47 Q to Kt 5(!) Qt.Q 
48 P queens ch Kto B2 
49 Qt. Kt ch Kt.Q 
50 Kt to B 7 ch KtoK 4 
51 Kt t. Q P to R 3 (8) 
52 PtoB4ch Kto Kk 5 
53 KttoQGch KtoQ6 
54 Kt to Kt 7 K to K 6 
55 PtoB5 KtoK7 
56 P to Kt4 KtoK 6 
57 K to Kt 3 K to K7 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

24 LONDON CHESS 

White. Black. 
58 KttoR5(T) KtoK6 
59 Kt to Kt 3 KtoK7 
60 PteoR3(U) KtoK6 
61 PtoR4 KtoK?7 
62 KtoB4 K to B7 
63 P to Kt 5 P to R4(V) 
64 Pt. P PtP 
65 KttoB5(!) KtoKt7(W) 
66 Kt t. P K to R6 
67 KttoB5 Kt. P 
68 Ktto K 4 Resigns. 

(A) White may also proceed with 
4 P to Q Kt 3,5 B to Kt 2, and 
6 B to Q 3. 

(B) After the exchange of Pawns 
on the previous move, White has 
to develope the Q Kt to Q 2 for 
two reasons; for the protection of 
his Q B P,and to keep clear the 
QB P file for his Rooks, 

(C) Black begins now to concen- 
trate his forces to an attack against 
an unassailable point, White’s Q B 
P, and, of course, all his prepara- 
tions must result in loss of time 
and position, 

(D) Threatening to win a Pawn 
with 14 Pt. P, B t. B, 15 Pt. Kt, 
B to Kt 4, 16 Kt to K 5, Qto K sq 
[16.... Bw0Q3,17P toQR4}, 
17 Q to B3. 

(E) 13....P t. P would be 
better. 

(F) Obviously overlooking the 
opponent’s reply; he should have 
captured the Knight, thus pre- 
venting further loss of time. 

(G) After17....Pt. P,18Pt. 
P, Bt. P, White would win a piece 
with 19 P toQ Kt 4.—It would 
have been better, however, to retire 
the Bishop at once to Kt sqy—com- 
pare Black’s 19th move. 

(H) Premature: I ought to have 
doubled the Rooks and played the 
Bishop to R 3 first. 

(I) 22.... Pt. P, recommended 
by Mr. Steinitz, would be better, 

TOURNAMENT, 

but it would not equalise the game, 
for White’s superiority of Pawns on 
the Queen’s wing should finally tell. 

(J) Necessary to prevent White 
from opening an attack against the 
weak Q RP, after the capture of 
the Knight. 

(K) A weak continuation which 
jeopardises the decisive advantage 
already secured. White had an 
easy win after: 

35 Pt. P Rt. K P 
36 PtoB4 R to K 8 ch 
37 Rt. R Qt. Rch 
38 K to Kt 2 QtoK d5ch 

If 38....Qto K 8, then 39 P to 
B 5, forcing the exchange of Queens 
or the gain of the Q P, forif39.... 
Q to B 2, then 40 Kt to Q 6, and 
if 39....Qto K 4, then 40 R to 
K 2. 

39 Qt. Q Pt.Q 
) Kt to Qé6 RtoB2 
41 Kt to Kt 5 R to B sq 
42 PtoB7 

Or 42 Kt t. P, R to B 2, 43 Kt to 
Kt 5, R to B sq, 44 P to B 7, Kt 
to K 3, 45 P to RG, &e. 

| Pee Kit to K 3 
43 PtoBSd PtoR3 
44 Pt. Kt Pt. Kt 
45 P to R 6 

(L) 36 R to Kt 5 would probably 
have led to a draw—e.y.: 

36 R to to Kt 5 R to K 8 ch 

Black’s only resource: if 36.... 
Q to R 5, then 37 Kt to Q6; if 
36....Q to K 2, then 37 Q t. P, 
Bay R 3, 38 Rt. P, and White 
will easily force the gain of the 
QRP. 

37 K to Kt2 QuR 

38 Qt. Q RtR 
39 Qt. P ch KtoR2 
40 Kt toQs Kt to Kt 3 
41 QtoQ7 

Or 41 Qt. P, Kt to K 4, &e. 
41 ii. Rt. Kt 

nal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S 

If 41....Rto R sq, then 42 Kt 
to K 6. 

42 QUR Rt. P- 

43 Qt. P RtoB2 

(M) If 40 Q to K 2, intending 
41 Q to K 8, then 40....K to 
B 3. 

(N) He should have played 40 
- Q to B 7, as recommended by 
Mr. Steinitz. "White has different 
continuations, but none, I think, 
would effect more than a draw 
e.g. ¢ 
aD cians QtoB7 

Best: any King’s move loses—ef. 
Chess-Monthly, Vol. 1V., p. 330, 
note (f)—and if 40.,.. Kt tok 3, 
then 41 Q t. P. 

41 Kt toQ 6 

If 41 Kt to K 7 ch, K to BR sq, 42 
Kt t. P, then 42....Qto K 5 ch, 
43 K to Kt sq, Q t. Kt, 44 P to 
B7, P to Q 6, 45 P queens, P to 

Q 7 (!) 

rt oe PtoQs6 
42 Qt. RP PtcQ7 
43 QtoB7ch KtoR2 

Or 44....Qt. 

queens, 46 Kt to K 8, Kt 

47 Kt t. P ch [47 Q to B 7, Kt to 
h 

B 5 ch, 48 P t. Kt, Q to Kt 5 ch, 
and draws], K to Kt 3, 48 Q to 
K 5, Kt to Kt 4,49 Kt to Q 5, Q to 
B 6 ch, 50 K to B sq, Q to Q 8 
ch, &e. 

45 P queens Qt. Q 

46 Kt t.Q Kt to Kt 3 
Black threatens 47... .Q to Kt 5. 
47 KttoK7 Kt t. Kt 

He might draw at once with 47 
- Kt to B 5 ch. 

48 Qt. Kt 
49 P to BG, &e, 

(O) Threatening 44 Q to B 4. 
(P) If 44.... Kt to K 3, then 

Pt.Qé6 

GAMES, 25 

45 Q to Kt 3, followed by the same 
continuation as in the text. 

(Q) Mr. Arthur O'Neill points 
out in the Glasgow Herald that 
White had here an immediate win 
with 45 Q to Q B 8 (!), Q t. Kt ch, 
46 Q to B 3, Q to Q B 4 (Q 2), 47 
Q to Kt 7 (') 

(R) Black must provide against 
the threatened continuation, 47 Kt 
to B 4—If 46.... P to Kt 4, 
White wins with 47 Q to Q 3, K to 
Kt 2,48 Kt to K 7,Q t. P,49Q 
to Kt 6 ch, K to B sq, 50 Qt. B 
ch, K to K sq, 51 Kt to B 5, Q to 
Q 2,52 Qt. R P, P to KR 4,53 Q 
to R 8ch,K to B2 [53.... Kt to 
B sq, 54 Q to R 5 ch, K to Q sq, 
55 Qt. P ch), 54 Q to R 7 ch, K 
to K sq, 55 Q to Kt 8 ch, Kt to B 

sy, 56 Q t. P, P to R 5, 57 P to 
Kt 4, &e 
(S) If 51. 1. to. B.4, 

White would win ‘after 5 52 K to B2, 
and 53 K to K 3, &e. 

(T) This and my next move were 
superfluous. 

(U) For after 60 Kt to Q 4 ch, 
K to Q 6,61 Kt to K 6,P toQR4, 
White obviously dare not capture 
the Kt P.—The advance of the 
Pawn in two moves instead of one 
is well-timed, for White forces 
thereby the position of the hostile 
King, which he requires for the 
final manceuvre. 

(V) Oré3....B Pt. Pch, 64 
ot Eek P ch, ‘65 K t. P, K to 
K 6 [B 6, Kt 6], 66 K to Kt 6, K 
to B 5, 67 Kt to R 5, K to K 5, 68 
Kt to B 6, K to B 5,69 Kt to K 7, 
P to R 4, 70 K t. BP? to 85,71 
P to B 6,P to R 6,72 P toB7 
[72 Kt to Q 5 ch wins equally], P 
to R 7, 73 P queens ch. 

(W) Oré5.... Pto R 4, 66 Kt 
to K 4 ch, K to K 8, 67 Kt t. P, P 
to R 5, 68 Kt to Q 5, P to BR 6, 69 
Kt to Kt 4, K to Q 7,70 P to BB, 
K to B 6, 71 P to B 7, &e. 

' 7 ri 
PRINCETO N UNIV ERS aT Y 

TOURNAMENT, 

CHESS 

LONDON 

26 

Game 18, played on the 28th of May. 

GIUOCO PIANO, 

Black. White. Black. 

White. 

J & = 62 8S Bgn o> OS - S25 ~~ 

Hy wt 00 tw FON Rorenase Moandownm § of Lom inen 
fa Fb ad Bp et CHOI Hil BB 
SHSSSSuSSSSSFSSSFSSSSISSSuSESSSSSISuSsSSFZss33g98 
SM MMA MRO eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eo 

a3 ot 3 Pe g es So wos ry 
Tlie tide Coo mw Fa Fasc BA FaTo Toa ee O4 tention tt « 
aS BEd, BMmAA HOCH OROMORE EE EM at Shae COCR SCR 2 
SBSSSSuSSSSISSISSSSISIIILSSIS SL SPSL SS SSH KKH ssy 
$y (RR GO Fy FY A RS A A Dd 0S ed aed 0 hd Ba ad fart a et fd fa td fat td ae at fa a ad a Bt 
SSYSRESRRSSSRSSSSSSSSESBZSRAARKRAKRAARSSRLSSASBBLSA 
. -_ _ ; | 
tsk eae a a= — S10 CUP OO Cpt co 2 8 NO es = Ce Riv 

ao © 9 ng 08 Qy awn ‘ aA 
dt Fak ootan sotokzam ates Oh og SIS Seite Ol Re 
S sisisosissgisseusegstsiu8seg8a58 2833iie82es5-5 
Pi a Sl en Bd om en Od ey Ooh hd ee Orr a i ie a en 
La) 
aw setekex ray ashat ane sar 28.5 Fe Som Fea Te 
qs eR COOK Mn 82% s0oame soumeEMe Ea oat ee Comune Me 
MS SSSSSSSseETSMSSsSSTSSSSSSIASSSLSSSSESESSSSBLBL 
WO SRR eee Savonsumaeanoscouemouelavavaunmatmue 
dna Nira Rated bah Som ff tae pot rk fee py ee fh eet eee eee EEE be 
mt st st ON SI OE Ol SE ON GI Ol GE OO OO CO OO 99 OO OD 2D 09 OO OH Oe et 

(A) The usual continuation ig 

4 

inal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERS 

ii 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 27 

7...°PtoQR3; the text move, 
however, is equally satisfactory. 

(B) The only reply which avoids 

a badly doubled Pawn, for if 9. 
P to B 3, then 10 Pt. P, B t. B 
(10.... Pt. P, 11 Bt. Pech, Kt. 
B, 12 Q to Kt 3 ch, and 13 Q or B 
t. Bj, 11 Pt. P, Bt. Pch, 12 Kt. 
B, Bt. P, 13 Q to Kt 8, &e. 

(C) Obviously to prevent the 
double attack against the B P with 
18....Kt to K 5, but it would 
have been much better, I think, to 
advance the threatened Pawn. 

(D) Any direct attack has no 
chance of success, and the awkward 
position of the Rook must finally 
prove very troublesome. 

(E) Ill-judged: the Q Kt was 
required at Kt 3 for defensive pe 
poses and has finally to return there 
after o A ponyencst of siX moves. 

Black had two she continua- 
tions: (1) 20.... Kt to Q 2, fol- 
lowed by 21.. .P to B 4 or by 

31....Kt to Kt 3, wee. ; (2) 20 
.--- RBtoQ sq, 21....RtQ 3, 
and 22.... Kt to Q 2, &c. 

(F) Very tempting, but disastrous 
would be: 
23 PwB4 Qt. P(!) 

If 28.... Pt. P(?), then 29 Kt 
to B 3, and White will soon recover 
the sacrificed Pawn with a fine 

position. 

29 Rto B2 ' Qt RK 

30 Bt.Q Rt. B 

81 KttoR3 R to B 8 ch 
32 K to B2 RtwQR 

8 
33 QtoBdb 
If 33 P to R 4, then 33....P to 
R3orR4. 
Be sade Kt to Q 2 
34 K to K 2 Rt. Kt, 
with a decisive superiority of forces 
and position. 

(G) Of course, White dare net 

prepare the advance of the B P 
with 29 R to B 2, for Black would 

then win the Queen with 29.... 
P to R 3.—Mr. Bird proposed here 
the continuation 29 Rt. Kt, Rt. 
R (?), 30 Qt. P,Q to B4, 31 Qt. 
Q, BR t.Q, 32Bto B2. The sacri- 
fice of the exchange would have been 
absolutely unsound, however, for L 
would have retaken with the Pawn, 
and if 30Q to R 6, then 30.... 
P to B 4, 31 R to R3, Kt to B sq, 
&e. 

(H) Threatening to continue 
with: 

33 Kt to Q2 Rt P * 
34 Ktt. P Pt. Kt 
35 Rt. P(!) 

White could not at once enter on 
this line of play, for Black would 
first check at B 8 and exchange 
Rooks, and then capture the 
Knight. 

(I) White still dare not play the 
Knight, e.g.: 
37 KttoR3 Kt to Kt 5 

38 R to B sq (B4) Q Ktt. K P 
39 K Rt. Kt Kt t. R 

40 K t. Kt Rt. P ch, 
and 
| eee Rt. B 

(J) After 38 Bt. Kt, Pt. B, 39 
R to R sq Black would get a win- 
ning advantage with 39....R to 
B 5. 

(K) It is difficult to sugyest any 
other continuation for White; it is 
obvious that neither K nor K R 
dare move; if 40 Kt to R3, then 
40....QKtt. KP, 41 Rt. RK 
t. R, &e.—ef. note (1); if 40 B to 
Q sq, then likewise 40....Q Kt 
t. K P, 41 Rt. R, Kt to B 5d ch, 
and 42....K t, R; if at last 40 B 
t. Kt, Pt. B, 41 Rt. Kt P, then 
41....RtoB5, 2 PtoR 5, R 
t. RP, 43 Pt. P, R to RZ ch, 44 
K moves, K Rt. P, &. 

(1) Best, for if 42 Rt. R, then 
42.... Kt to Kt 6 ch, 43 K moves, 
Kt t. R; if 42 Ktt. P, then 42... 
Rt R43 Pt. KR, Kt t. B, 44 K t. 

riginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

28 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Kt, R to K sq, 45 K to B3, P to 
B 6 (!), 46 R to R sq, Rt. Kt, &. 

(M) After 45 Kt t. P, Kt t. Kt, 
46 BR t. Kt, Black wins with 46... . 
Pto BE. 

(N) The Pawn needed no addi. 
tional protection, and I might have 
played at once R to Q sq, e.g. : 

| ee R to Q sy 
46 Ktt. P Kt t. Kt 
47 Rt. Kt PtoBé6 
48 Rt QB4 

Or 48-R to K B 4, R to Q 7 ch, 49 
K to K sq [49 K to B3 or B sq, P 
to B 7], Rt. P, 50 K to Q sq (best), 
R to Q 3 ch, 51 R to Q 4, R to Q7 
ch, 52 R t. R, Rt. R ch, 53 K to 
B sq, RtoQ RZ. 

WS 53S Si R to Q7 ch 
49 K to Ksy K R to B7 
60 Rt. P Q R to K 7 ch 
51 K to Qsq RtoQR7 
52 RtoB3 Rt. Kt P 

53 RtoK B sq Rt P 

54 Rto B7 Rto R8 ch 
55 BR to B sq Rt. R eh 

56 Kt. RK R to Kt 5 

57 R to Q sy 

Or57 RtoB4, Rt. R, 58 Pt. R, 
K to B3. 

yea Rto Bidch 
and 
RR ea ahi RtoQ Kt 5 

Another strong continuation was 
45....R to K sq, threatening 46 
.... Kt to Q 6, 47 Ktt. P, Rt. 
Kt, 48 Rt. R, Rto B7 ch, 49 K 
to Q sq, P to B 6, 

(O) Throwing away an easy win 
which I could force with : 

49 .... KtoB4 
50 R to Kt7 PtoB3 
51 P to Kt 4 ch 

Or 51 RtoQ B7, P to Kt 3, 52K 
to B 6, R to Q 6, &e. 

ere K to K 3 
52 RtoQB7 P to Kt 3 
53 Rto B6 ch RtoQ3 

54 Rt. Reh 

If 54 R to B7 or BB, then 54.... 
R to Q 6; if 54 Rt. Kt, then 54 
.... Pt. R, 55 Kt t. P,R to Q sq, 
56 Kt t. P ch, K to K 4, 57 P to 
Kt 6, Pto B 6, 58 P to Kt 7 [58 
Kt to Q 3ch, KtoQ4,and59.... 
K to B 5), P toB7, and must win. 

eee KtR 

55 K toQ2 K to K4 
56 K to B2 PtoB4 
57 Pt. P K t. P 

58 K to Q 2 K to Kt 5 
59 K to K 2 K to Kt 6 
60 K to K sy K to B 6, & 

(P) An ingenious sacrifice which 
secures the draw, but nothing more. 
It was over and over stated in the 
daily Press that Mr. Bird got a 
Winning advantage against me. I 
do not know on whose authority 
the statement was made, but it has 
no foundation whatever, ef. note 
(Q). 

(Q) A hasty advance which 
proves fatal. Black should have 
continued with : 

72 Ktt. Pch K to K2 

Black would lose after 72....K 
to K 4 by 73 P to Kt 7, R to R 
sq, 74 Kt t. Pand 75 Kt to Q 7 or 
R6. 

73 P to Kt 7 

If 78 Kt t. P, then 73.... BR to 
R 3, 74 P to Kt 7, R to Q Kt 3, 
75 K to B 3, K to Q 3, and White 
dare not take the Pawn. 

ce R to R sq 

74 Ktt. P R to Q Kt sq 

75 KtoB3 KtoQ3 

76 Kt. P KtoB3 

77 PtoK4 R to K BR sq, 
and draws 

(R) The winning reply: the 
White King loses one move, which 
proves decisive. 

(S) The game was here adjourned 
after nine hours’ play. 

(T) If 91 Kt to Q3, then 91.... 
R to Q Kt 8; if 91 Kt to Kt 3, 
then 91....Rto K 8. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ee Rt 

hop Oe eee 

rr 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 29 

Game 19, played on the 29th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
B. Exeuiscu. J. H, ZvuKentorr. 46 BtoQ6é K to B 2 (P) 
1PtK4 PtoK 4 47 Bt. R Kt.B 
2KttoK B38 KttoQB3 48 K to K 2 KtoK3 
3 Bto Kt 5 Kt to B3 49 KtoB3 K toK 4 
4PtQ3 PtoQ3 50 KtoK3(Q) PtoB5 
5 Kt toB3 P to K Kt 3 51 KtoB3(R) PtoKt4 
6 PtKRS B to Kt 2 52 Kto K 3 PtoB4 
7BtK3 Bt Q2 53 K to B3 P to Kt 5 
8B Qt.Q2 PtoKR3 54 K to K 3 PtoR4 
9 Castles, KR Kt to K Kt 55 Pt. P BPt. P 
sy (A) 56 KtoQ2(S) KtP 
0Pt.Q4 PtP 57 K to B sq P to BG 
1 Ktt. P K Kt to K 2 58 K to Q sy K to B6 
2QRtQsq(B) Ktto K 4 59 K to B sq K to K7 
3 BtoK2(C) PtoK Kt4 Resigns 
4PtoB4 PtP 
: 2 t. z ; = Kt to Kt 8 ‘ (A) hi barwa t None have played 
to ttoR5 bea , followed by Kt 
7 Rt B2 R to K Kt sq to K 2 and Kt to Kt 3. The text 
8 KtoR sq PtoQB3(D move causes all but irreparable 
9 KttoKt3(E) BtoK B sy loss of time and position. 
Be SRY e Bet) (B) All this is played by Herr 
LRt.Kt(F) RtR : ehh 
ER toR5 Englisch with consummate know- 
BteoK Q to ledge of the Opening. 12 Pto B 
t5(G) Qt. RPch Pa Sa 
4 K to Kt 8q (H) Q to Kt 6 ch 4 would be very inferior, for Black 
5 K to Q to R 6 ch would reply 12....P to Ba, and 
6 KtoKts Q to Kt 6 ch later on Castle on the King’s side 
7Kuk = x as Kt 5, with a well-developed game. 
8 Bt. Kt BtB (C) The best reply. If 13 P to 
9RtoKBsq BtoB6ch B 4, Black would vastly improve 
Rt. B Qt. Rech his position with 13 .... B t. B, 
Q to Kt 2 Q to R 4ch 14 either Kt t. B, Kt to B 5,15 Q 
K to Kt sq K toQ 2 to B sq, Kt t. B, 16 Qt. Kt, P to 
ae pa B to Kt 2 Q R38. 
to B4 Bt. Kt D) P ; 
PUB to tag ae Ppp aaing the retreat ofthe 
QtoB3(J) QtoR5ch K kt file. Black dove net ple 
St BEA) At A 4(!) at once B to K B sq, for Whit» 
Q to Q3ch K to K 2 QM) would reply 19 Kt te Q 5. 
Q to Q 6 ch KtoB2 (E) Extremely weak: White had 
Q to Q7 ch R to K 2 two continuations, 19 Kt to B 5 or 
Qt. Pech QtoB3 19 QR to K B sq, either of which 
QtoR7 ch K to K sq(N) would secure him the superior 
QtoKktS8ch Qto Bsq (0) game, 
Qt.Qch Kt. Q (F) If 21 Bt. B, then 21..,, 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

80 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Q to R 5, and Black will draw at 
least. 

(G) After 23 Q to K 3, Bt. B, 
24 Q to Kt 3,Qt. Qch, 25 K t. 
Q, Black would win easily with 25 
.... K to K 2, 26 RtoK Rsq, 
B to K 6, &e. 

(H) If 24 K to B2, Black mates 
with 24.... Qto R7ch, 25 K 
to K 3 [if 25 K to B sq or K sq, 
Black mates in two moves|, Q to 
Kt 6 ch, 26 K to Q 4, P to B 4ch, 
27 Ktt. P, Pt. Kt ch, 28 KtoQ 
5, B mates. 

(I) Herr Englisch proposed here 
afterwards 33 B to B 4, butin exa- 
mining the position together, we 
came repeatedly to the same result 
—viz., that after 33..... BtoR 
8, 34 Bt. B, Q t. B, the exposed 
position of White’s King led to 
decisive loss of material. 

(J) Not to much purpose ; but I 
do not think that White has any 
satisfactory continuation : his 
Pawns are all isolated and hope- 
lessly weak. 

(K) After 37 B to Kt 3, Qt. P, 
38 Qt. Q [38 Qt. P ch, R to K2, 
and wins], R t. Q, 39 K to B 3 |: 
Kt toQ 4, PtoQB4, 40 0 
3, P to Q 4, 41 Kt to K 2, 

R 5, &.], RtoQR5, 40 Kt 
sq, R to R 6, 41 Bto K sq, P to 
Kt 4, Black should win ultimately. 

(L) A futile attempt to eseape 
with a drawn battle, but he bad no 
satisfactory reply, for he dare not 
take nor protect the Pawn, ¢.9-: 
38 Pt. P 
Or 38 Kt to Q 2, Pt. P, 39 Kt t. 

P, R to K B sq. 

Bat onttes Rto K 8 ch 
39 K to Kt 2 Q to R 8 ch 
40 K to Kt 3 R to Kt 8 ch 
41 KtoB2 Rto BB ch 

(M) 39.... K to B sq would 
not lead to a draw, but unneces- 
sarily prolong the game, viz.: 39 
ry i to B sq, 40 Q to Q 6, Q to 
K 2,41 Q to Kt 8 ch, K toQ 2,42 

Qt. Pech, K to K 3,43 Qt. P ch, 
K to B 2, 44Q to Q Sch, Qto K 
3,45 Qt. P ch, Qt. Q, 46 Pt. Q, 
K to B 3, and must win with cor- 
rect play. 

(N) Inferior to 43 .... K to 
B sq. 

(0) A miscalculation which 
ought to have forfeited the victory. 
I had an easy win with 44 ie 
to Q 2, 45 Q to Q Kt 8, Rt. P, 46 
Qt. P ch, K to K sq, 47 Qto BB 
Bi OES ABS 7 ch, R to 
K 2. 

(P) 46....P to B 5 would not 
have won, ¢.9.: 

Me Si % PtoB5 
47 KtoK 2 K to B2 
48 Bt. R Kt B 

49 KtoK 3 K toQ 3 

50 K to Q 4, and Black must. play 
for a draw. 

(Q) White could draw here 
with: 

50 PtoB4 P to Kt 4 
51 KtoK 8 PtoR38 
529 KtoB3 PtoR4 
53 KtoK3 P to Kt 5 
54 K to B3 PtoR5 
55 Kto K 3 PtoR6 
56 K toB3 K toQ5 
57 PtoK 5 

Pointed out by Mr. Hirschfeld, and 
much safer than 57 K to B 4, 
K to B 6, 58 Pto K 5, Kt. P at 
B7, 59 Pto K 6, P to Kt 6, &e. 

57 ives Kt. EP 

58 K to K 3, and secures an easy 

draw by keeping the opposition. 
(R) The fighting is over, for if 

5LP to R4, then 51.... PtoR 

4,and52.... Pto Kt 4. 
(S) Of course, if 56 P to B 3, 
then 56.... P to Kt 6,57 Pt. 

P, Pt. P, 58 KtoQ 3, PtoR 5, 
59 PtoB4, PtoR6, 60K toB 
8, P to Kt 7, 61 K to B2, Kt. P 

” &e, 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

White. 

J. WW. Zcegrrorr. 

=Seons)Se aor 
BPORRNWANHO AY 
B 
8 

t. Kt 

12 Kt t. B ch 

13 Q to Kt 3 

14 BR to K sq 

15 KttoR3 

16 P to Kt 4 

17 QtoQ B3(B) 
18 Bto Kt 2 

19 QtoK Kt 3 
20 P to Kt 5 

4 
ND 
*ssssors! 

03 2 bo 
=o tS 
TRU Spondon n 

comes cs 
Coron 
WHORE GHOWY Homsowt 
Ssossansrst 
Std} da 
OM RAMOME dy by 
a-2 a 

SSESS 

= 
i] 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES, 31 

Game 20, played on the 31st of May. 

RUY LOPEZ, 
Black. (A) The best reply: he dave not 
’ capture the Bishop on account of 
ef Naa ig OEE SOR ae eg eee 
PtoK4 RG, K to Kt sq, and White recovers 
Kt toQB3 the piece with the superior position 
PtoQR3 by continuing with 12 Q to Kt 4, 
Kt to B 3 or he pursues the attack with 12 
Pt.P Kt to K 6, B Pt. Kt, 13 Q to Kt 
Bto K 2 4 ch, Bto Kt 4,14 P to K B4,Q 
Kt to K 5 to K sq,15 Pt. B,Q Ktt. P, 16 
Kt to B 4 Q t. Kt, Kt to Kt 3,17 Kt to B 3, 
Castles (A) —An equally unsatisfactory con- 
As i aaa ) tinuation is 
Q t. Kt GD icas P to K Kt 3 
iio ve 10 Kt. t. B Qt. Kt 
BtoB4 11 KttoB3 Castles 
PtoBs Or ll.... Kt t. B, 12 Kt toQ 5, 
KttoQ2(D) — Q to Q.sq, 13 Kt to B 6 ch, K to 
Kt t. P (F) B sq, 14 B to RB 6 ch, K to K 2,15 
QtoB2 B to Kt 5, éc—If 11.... Ktt. 
ag tabs P, then 12 R to K sq. 
fs hour.] 12 KttoQ5 QtP 
ttoBd 13 BtoR6 R to Q sq 
Or13....RtoK sq, 14 B to K 
Pto B38 B4,Qt. P,15B t. Kt,Q Pt. B, 
Kt t. Kt 16 Kt t. P, &. 
K to Kt 2(T) 
P to K Kt 4 14 Rto K sq Qt. P 
Bt. B P(K) 15 R to Kt sq QtweQs 
B to Kt 3 If15....Qt. RP, then 16 B t. 
PtoR3 Kt, threatening mate in three 
Q R to Q sq moves. ~ 
BOOS 16 Bt. Kt t.Q 
tot ADE 17 KttoB6ch KtoRsq 
fee eres 18 QRt.Q Kt Pt. B 
PLP 19 R to K 7, and wins. 
B to Kt 3 (B) Tempting, but unsound, is 
RtoQ8 10 BtoR6, Pt. B,11Q to Kt4 
ch, B to Kt 4,12 P to K B 4, P to 
Q to K 2 K R&R 4 (!), and whatever White 
K to B2 play, Black will remain a piece 
PtwoQB4 ahead with a defensible position. 
apa oe (C) Again choosing the best de- 

Given up as drawn (N). 

fence: the plausible move Kt to 
K 3 would be very inferior, e.g. : 

| if 1} 
VERSITY 

tf 

PRINCETON UNE 

32 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

0 re Kt to K 3 

11 Bt. Kt QPtB 
Ifll....Kt Pt. B, then 12B 
to R 6, B to Kt 4, 13 Kt t. P (') 
12 R to Q sq BtoQ2 

If 12....Q to Ksq, then equally : 
13 BtoR6 

(D) The only move which secures 
the gain of the Pawn: if 16.... 
Kt to K 5, then 17 Q to Kt 3 ch, 
anything, 18 Pt. P. 

(E) If now Q to Kt 3 ch, Black 
may reply 17....Qto B2, winning 
the Pawn, or 17 ....Q to K 3, 
for if 18 P t. P, then 18.... Qt. 
Q, Winning off hand. 

CF) Desks 312 as PS. B, 
White recovers the Pawn with 18 
P to K B 4 and 19 B to Kt 2, 

(@) If19.... QRtoQsq, with 
the intention to proceed after 20 B 
t. Kt, P t. B, 21 R t. P, with 21 
..+- Qt. P(!), White plays 20 P 
to KR 3. 

(H) After 22 Kt t. P, Rt. R ch, 
23 Rt. R, R to Q B sq, Black wins 
a& piece. 

(I) After the exchange of Knights 
Black's extra Pawn is of little im- 
portance, and an ultimate draw on 
account of the Bishops of different 
colours almost certain, but the way 
which Black chooses for the defence 
of the attacked Pawn needlessly 

exposes him to a very harassing 
attack.—I would suggest 24.,.. 
R to K 3 instead of the text 
move. 

(J) Intending to proceed with 
to Kt 4and P to Kt 5—If25B 
-RP, then 25.... Rt. Reh, 26B 
.R [26 Rt. KR, Rt. B(), 27 RK to 
7,R to Q4,28 R t. Q ch, Kt. 
,29Qto B7 ch, R to Q 2, and 
ins], Rt. P, &e. 

(K) Itis obvious that Black dare 
not capture the Bishop after the 
exchange of Rooks, and if at once 
R t. B, then 27 Rt. R, Qt. R, 28 
Q to B7 ch, and 29 Qt. R. 

(L) 35 P to Kt 4 was very 
tempting, but it would render the 
position of the White King too ex. 

4. RS 

posed, viz.; 35....R toQ 6, 36 
to Kt 2 or Rag, Q to B sa, 
threatening 87....Q to B 4 ch. 

(M) If now b to Kt 4, Black 
rejoins with 36....Q to K 2,37 
Q to B 2, B to Q 6, 38 BR to K sq, 
R to K 3, &c. 

(N) The continuation would be 
41 Rt. P ch, Rt. R, 

ch, K t.Q, 43 Bt. Rk, 
44 Bto Kt 5, Kt o K 
Kt 3, K toQ 4,46 K 
to B 5,47 K to K sq, K to 
48 B to K 7, P to B 5, 49 
Q 8, &e. 

K 
3, 
to 

Game 21, played on the Ist of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
J. U1. ZuKeerorr. J. Masox. 
1KttooK B38 PtoQ4 
2PtoQ4 KitoK B3 
3 PtoK 3 Bto Kt 5 
4BtoK2 Bt. Kt 
5 Bt B PtwoKs 
6 Castles BtoQ3 

White. Black. 
7PtoB4 PtoB3 
8 KttoB3 Q Kt toQ 2(A) 
9Pt.QKt3 RtQBsq 
10 BtoQ2(B) Bto Ktsq (C) 
ll RtoKsq(D) PtoK R4 
12 PtP BPt.P 
13 PtoK4 PtP 

rie ina } 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 
14 Kt t. P 
15 Bt. Kt 

— — ee 
© bo =r) 
res] 
ess* 
Fm hy 

RVORAS 
i] 

mn 
_ 

WSSmsssssrne 
BOSO 

ono nto to to PD tw POR BO 
SERDYUARR Owe S 
eo 

5 

OF"OG 

to 

a 

i) 
0 hk 
AUUCURRRNOO TARO OWWA ROR Wd OoOThOoR 

=~ 
i] 

oe) 
roow 

Ess 
Sean 

ssssrsrsse 

Sno 
3 

SSSfERfSSESERE 
oO 
a 
| 
-— 

SREGNE SEH 
SAAR RRA TORO 
"sssssss*s 8s 
BARRO Ry RH © 

io rn © 

Cr Gr 
at 
ra 
st st 
~ 
o 

oO 

ZUEERTORT’S GAMES. 33 

B 
= 

rs Ssskegenssersr 
Big tS ib 
5 eo eo oc 
a 
= 

AQOVURR ROOM AH OM ORnOOOKOWHHWO we 
essses "sss 

POONA RoO Kr OR IO OW 

ey 2 
oat 

o 
~ 
ro” gy Ro & 

OS 

rie pt 

cr 

Sssesssssrarrs 
no cot 

Fm 

WRAP Ri Re 
is 

S 
w 
bo 

Resigns, 

K 2, Black dare not protect the 
Pawn with 9 .... P to Q Kt 4, on 
account of 10 Kt t, P, &e. 

(B) White dare not advance the 
K P at once, for Black would reply 
10 .... Bto Kt 5. 

(C) Preparing already an attack 
against the adverse King's flank. 

(D) Opening an outlet for his 
King, and intending at the same 
time to force a breach in the centre. 

(E) If18 ....Qt. P, then: 
19 BtoB3 Qto K Kt sb 
Orl9....Q to Kt 3, 20Bt. Kt, 
Pt.B(20....Qt. B21 Qt. Q, 
R t. Q, 22 Bt. P, with the better 
position for the end-game], 21 Qt. 
P, R to Kt sq, 22 B to B 3, &c. 

20 Bt. Kt Qt.Q 
21 Bt.Q Pt.B 
22 P to Kt3 PtoR5 
23 K to Kt2 

(F) If19.... Ktto Kt 5, White 
wins a piece with: 
20 Rt. Pch K to B sq 
If20....Pt. R, then 21 BtoB 
6 ch; if20....Bto K 2, then 21 
Rt Bech, Qt. R, 22 Q to B 6 ch, 
Q to Q 2, 23 Rto K sq ch, &e. 

21 Bt.Q Kt to R 7 ch 
22 K to K 2 Kt t.Q 
23 Rt. B 

(G) 20 B toB4, B to Q 8, 21Q 
to B 6 ch, K to K 2, would be 
rather in Black’s favour. 

(H) The exchange leads to 
Bishops of different colours, but it 
provides White with a fine attack. 

(I) If 22....B t. P, White 
would win with : 

sq (27....B 

28 Q to Kt 4 ch 

rkRt.B aT tates 

, 28 Q to K 4 ch, &.], 28 
D 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

34 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Q to R 3 ch, K moves, 29 Q to Kt 
4 ch, K moves, 30 Rt. B. 

24 BtoQ3 Rto B83 

If 24....R to Kt 3, then 25 B 
toB 4, RtoB3 [25....QtoB 
8,26 Rt. P, Rt. R, 27 Rt. BY, 26 
Q to R 4, R to Q 8, 27 Rt. P, &e. 
25 Rt. P RtR 

26 Bto B4 R to Kt 3 

If 26 ....QtoB 3, Q3 or Kt 3, 
then 27 Rt. B. 

27 Rto K sq Q to F2 

Or 27....Q to B3, 2 Qt. K8 
ch, K to R 2 (Q to B sq), 29 B 
t. R. 

28 Qt. P, 

aud recovers the Rook with two 
Pawns to the good. 

(J) Black dare not attempt to 
win the exchange with 27 ....B 
to K 4 on account of 28 Rt. P ch, 
Pt. R, 29 Q t. P ch, B to Kt 2, 80 
B to Q 5 ch, winning the Queen or 
mating. 

(K) Intending to continue with 
33 R to K B 3, and avoiding the 
trap 32 B t. P(?), Rto B sq (1), 
I missed, however, the strongest 
continuation which would secure at 
least the gain of a Pawn, viz.: 32 
R to Q7, for if 32....K to Kt2, 
then 35 Bt P. 

(L) 33 P to BR 4 would be best, 
I think. Of course, if 33 R to K 
B 3 (f), then 33 ....Q to B7 (!). 

(M) The right reply, which 
threatens the continuation R to K 
2 or Qto R5acc.—If 33....Qto 

B7 (?), then 34Q R to Q 2 and 35 
QtRP. 

(N) If now R to Q 7, then 34 
-...Q to R5, 35 K to Kt sq, B 
to K 4 (!), 36 Rt. P ch, KtoR 
3 (!), 37 R to R 7 ch, K to Kt 4, 
and wins. 

(O) Obviously a mistake. Black 
could not equalise the game with : 

86 bse R to B aq 
37 Rt. Pch rtR 

Or 37.... BtoR 3, 38 Rt. Bch, 
K to Kt 2 [38....K t.R, 39Q 
toK 3ch, K to Kt 2, 40 Bt. RJ, 
39 QtoK 3, Rt. B, 40 R to R 3, 
R to B 5, 41 BR to BB, &e. 

38 Qt. P ch K to Kt sq 
39 Bt. R, 

and if 39....R to B 7, then: 
40 R to Q 8 ch Qt RK 

Or 40.... Bto B sq, 41 Q to Kt 
4ch, Q to Kt 2,42 Bt. Pech, K t. 
B, 43 Q to B 5 ch, &e. 

41 Qt. Pch K to R2 
42 QtoB5ch KtoR3 
43 Qt. R 

(P) Of course, if 37.... Pt. R, 
then 38 B to Q 3 ch, &c. 

(Q) After 47... B to Kt sq, 48 
R to Q 7, White's victory is only a 
question of time, notwithstanding 
the Bishops of different colours, 
Black cannot guard sufficiently his 
weak Pawn and at the same time 
prevent White from forcing with 
Rook and King the gain of a piece 
for the Kt P. 

(R) Or 61 ....K to Q 3,52 K 
to B 3, K to B 2, 53 K to Kt4, &e. 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 

J. H. ZcKertort, 

Pon 
md 
goSess 
FAT ROO R Sr RO 
co tO com 

w 

egress 
- woe. 
28 

QW ROR TE 
ae 

Crm WMH SOMONE 
& 
co 
a 

Td 

SUS 

HomwWe FF 
Ssrs wp 
Onn Ss 

oom 
_ 
n 
cr 
=a 
° 
=) 
= 

uN 

o 
— 

bo to PO to tS 19 ty 
-— Co, 
G2 
~ 

*Sssssrsesscsg 
CODoKO FRA HAS 
e 

oe 

mo Be by 
ty 

— 

Ne 
o 
° 

pp 
ad 
we 

ef as, 
a RE 
nw 

FSSESERES 
OOWRROORD 

fessssssss 

ROL RW UTUR ROR HOVER KWROROD 
E 
i 
i—m 
=] 
ie 
— 

es 
ss 
oo 

ZUKERTORT’S OAMES, 35 

Game 22, played on the 4th of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. 

M. Tonigortiy. 

As 
oS 
& 
Lt] 

my PO od bd 
® to 2 to 

Roe S SSS 
"S 

& 
SHE pe 

_OUVSRRSEROOV 
SST Has 
RRORS 
aR fOs 
co f 

Ri tuo 
Sse. 
Roms 
News w 
S 

Roo BO 
we 

WESESSSMSE 
Sto e 

ATH ARAOAVROVRS 
Sooo SESE. 
Shar obeha lol pad 4) 
orm e Kms = a 

s § 

RA RBI 
s 

ZO 

bo oo wee 
bo 

et 
So 

White. Black 

44 RtoQKtsq Kt B2 
45 Rto Kt 5 K Rto K Rsq 

46 R to B sq PtoR3 

47 Rto Kt 2 Kt toQ3 
48 K to Kt sq R to Q Kt sq 
49 QRtoKtsqg QRtoR sq 

50 KtoB2 R to Kt 2 
(8rd hour,] 

51 K to K sq R to R sq 
52 K toQ2 QR toQ Ktsq 

Given up as a draw. 

(A) He dare not retake with the 
K P, for White would then win a 
Pawn with 12 P to Kt 4, Bto Kt 
3, 13 P to Kt 5, and 14 Kt t. P. 

(B) After 16 Kt t. P, Kt t. Kt, 
17 Bt. B, Black would win tho ex- 
change with 17 .... Kt to Q 6. 

(C) Blackshould force at once the 
exchangeofthe Bishopswith BtoKt4., 

(D) I played this part of the 
game ina poor style: I ought to 
have taken advantage of Black's 
omission and continued with 21 B 
to Q2and 22 P to Q R4, witha 
decidedly superior position. 

(E) There was still time to avoid 
the exchange of Bishops with B to 
Q 2, and if 22....B to Kt 4, 
then 23 Bto B 3. 

(F) Worse than useless: I should 
have continued with 27 Rto B3, 
threatening to break up Black’s 
Pawns on the Queen's flank with 
28 PtwQ R4, forif28....Q to 
B sq (?), then 29 Q t. Q, Rt. Q, 
30 Bto Kt 4, winning the exchange 
or two Pawns, viz.: 30....P to B 
4, 31 Bt. P, Kt t. B, 32 Pt. Kt, 
R to K sq, 33 R to K Kt 38. 

(G) Anticipating the advance of 
the adverse B P. 

(H) Owing to the nature of the 
poe and pieces—Bishop versus 

night—White has now to play a 
waiting game, taking sufficient care 
to prevent any hostile attempt to 
break through. 

| if 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

36 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Game 23, played on the 5th of June 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White. Black. 
Dr. Noa. J. H. ZcKertorr. 
1PtcK 4 PtoK4 
2 Ktto KB3 KttoQB3 
3 BtB4é BtoB4 
4PtoQ3s Kt to B3 
5 KttoB3 PtcQ3 
6 BtK3 B to Kt 3 
7 Qt Q2 Q to K2 
8 Bto K Kt5 BtoR4 
9 PtoQR3 PtoK R3 
10 Bto K 3 BtoK3 
11 BtoQ Kt5 Castles, K R 
12 PtoR3 Kt to Q 2 
13 PtoQ Kt4 B to Kt 3 
14 Bt. Kt Pt. B 
15 KttoK2(B) Pto K B4 
16 Pt. P Et.P 
17 Kt to R2 P to Q 4(C) 
| Ist hour. | 
18 Bt. B RPt.B 
19 Castles, K R Pto B4 
20 PtoK B4 BPt.P 
7 EP.P? Rt. R 
22 Rt. R PtP 
23 Ktt. P Q to Kt 4 
[1st hour. } 
24 Rto K Bsq Kt to B sq 
25 Q to Bsq P to Q 5 (') 
26 KttoK2(D) Rt. Reh 
27 K t. R (BE) Qt. Q ch 
28 Ktt.Q BtoQ4 
29 Kt to K2 Kt to K 3 
30 Kt to Kt 4 K toB2 
$l Kt to K 5ch K to B38 
32 Ktto Kt4ch KtoK2 
33 Kt to K5 KtQ3 
34 Ktto Kt6(F) PtoB4 
35 Pt. P ch ree 
36 QKt to B4(G) KttoB2 
37 KtoK 2 Bto B2 
[2nd hour.] 
38 P to Kt 3 Kt to Kt 4 
39 P to Ki 4 B to K sq 
40 Kt toR 4 P to Kt 4 
41 Kt to Bdch K to K4 
42 Kt to Kt 2 PtoR4 

43 Ktto Ksq(H) Pt. P 

White. Black. 
44 Pt. P B to Q2 
45 Kt toR6 K toBdb 
46 K to B2 (1) BtoB3 
47 K to K 2 Kt to B6 ch 

3rd hour. ] 
48 K to B2 (J) Kt to Q 8 ch 
49 K to K 2 Ki to K 6 
50 Kt to Kt 8 Ett, P 
51 Kt to K7 B to Kt 2 
52 KttoKt6éch KtoB4 
53 KttoB8(K) KttoK4 
54 K toQ2 Pto Kt 5 
55 K to K 2 P to Kt 6 
56 K to Bsq BtoQ4 

Resigns, (L) 

(A) 13 P toK Kt 4 was moro 
to the purpose. 

(B) Again, I would prefer P to 
Kt 4, 

(C) Here I missed a very pro- 
mising continuation, viz.: 17 .... 
P to B 4 followed by B to Q 4. 

(D) After 26 Kt t. B, Q t. Q, 27 
Rt. Q, Kt t. Kt, Black wins easily 
on the Queen’s side. 

(E) It would be better, I think, 
to preserve Queens with 27 Qt. R, 
for if 27 .... Bt. P, then 28 Kt 
4. P. 

(F) Intending to meet 34.... 
K to B 3 with 35 Kt toK 7 ch, but 
34 Kt to B 7 ch would be equally 
effective, for after 34 ....K to B 
3, 35 Kt to K 5 ch, Black dare not 
continue with 35 ....K to Kt 
4 on account of 36 P to B 4 ch, 
and if 36.... Pt. Pep., then 37 
Kt t. P ch, winning the Bishop. 

(G) Dr. Noa thought that the 
ultimate loss was occasioned by this 
move, and he proposed 36 K Kt to 
B 4 in its stead. Black would 
equally continue with 36 .... Kt 
to B 2, and after 37 K to K sq, P 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 37 

to Kt 4, 38 Kt t. B, Kt t. Kt, 39 K 
to Q 2, K to K 4, he has the supe- 
rior ending. 

(H) If 43 Kt to Kt 7, then 43 
-... B to B38, 44 Kt to K 

(I) A trap: should Black cap- 
ture the Pawn, White would win 
the Bishop with 47 Kt to Kt 2 ch. 

(J) If 48 K toQ 2, Black wins 
with ; 

BB) 5:2 sie B to Q 4 

49 KttoBd 

Or 49 K to B sq, K to K 6 and 50 
eek ae 

Se Kt. P 

50 Kt to K 7 

Or 50 Kt to R 6 ch, K to B 5. 
POs K to Kt 6 
51 Kt to Kt 6 P to Kt 5, &e. 

(K) An awkward square for the 
Knight, but White had no choice, 
for if 53 Kt to K 7 ch, Black wins 
with 53....K to B 3, 54 Kt to 
Kt 8 ch, K to B 2. 

(L) The game was here ad- 
journed, and Dr. Noa resigned a 
few minutes before seven. His 
game is hopeless: a plausible con- 
tinuation would be; 

57 Kt to Kt 2 

Necessary to rescue the K Kt 
which is threatened by 57....K 
to B 8, 58 Kt to R 7 ch, K to Kt 3, 
59 Kt to B 8 ch, K to Kt 2, 
ey K to Kt 5 
58 Kt toR?7 K toR6 
59 Kt to B4 ch 

Or 59 Kt to Kt Sch, K to R 7, 
&. If 59 Kto Kt sy, then 59.... 
Kt to B 6 ch, 60 K to B sq [60 K 
to R sq, Kt to K 8], Kt to R 7 ch, 
61 K to Kt sq, Bt. Kt, 62 Kt to 
Kt 5 ch, K to Kt 5, &c. 

GPS ea. K to R7, 
aud must win the Kt for the passed 
Pawn, 

—+e— 

Game 24, played oa the 6th of Juno, 
EVANS’ GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White. Black. 
M. Tcuiconix. J. H. Zoxertorr. 
1PtK 4 PtoK 4 
2 Ktto K B3 Kt to QB3 
3 Bo B4 BtoB 4 
4 PtoQ Kt4 B to Kt 3 (a) 
5 Castles PtcQ3 
6PtQR4 PtwoQR3 
7 PtoRB3 B to Kt 5 (A) 
8 PtwQ3 Q to B3 
9 BtoK 3 K Kt to K 2 
10 Q Kt to Q 2 (B) Kt to Kt 3(C) 
11 Bto K Kt 5 Qt B 
12 Kt t.Q Bt. Q 
183 Bt. P ech K to K 2 
14 B t. Kt (D) Bto K7 
1 KRtKsy BtP 

White. Black. 
16 Ktt. P P to Q4(E) 
17 PtoR4(F) PtoQ5(!) 
18 PtoQR5(G) Pt.P 

19 Pt. B Pt. Kt 
2KRtQsq PtP 

21 Rt. P KRtoQsq(H) 
22 R to Kt2 P to Kt 4 (I) 
23 R to K sq RtoQ5 

24 Rt K 3 Rt. Kt P 

iat bees) 

25 RtoQ2 BtoB5 

26 RtoK B3 Kt to Q5 

27 Rto K Kt 3 (J) Kt to K 7 ch 
28 Rt. Kt Bt RK 

29 BtoBd R to K Kt sq 
30 R to Kt6 BtoBs 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

38 LONDON CHESS 

White. Black. 
31 Rto Kt6 R to Kt sy 
32 Ktto Kt5(K) PtoR4 
33 R to Kt6 PtoR5 
34 Rt. Pch K to Q3 
35 R to Q7 ch KtoB4 
36 Kt to K 6ch Bt. Kt (L) 
37 Bt. B 1 A 
38 PtoR5 R to K Raq 
39 P to Kt 4 PtoR6 
40 RtoQ2(M) PtoKtsd 
41 PtoB38 RtoQB5 

Recta 
42 RtoQic KtoB3 
43 RtoR 5 P to Kt 4(N) 

[Ist hour. } 

44 R to R 6 ch K to Kt 2 
45 Bt. R K t. R(O) 
46 BtoKt3(P) KtoKt3 
47 K to B2 R to R sq 
48 BtoR2 P to Kt 6 
49 Bt. P PtoR?7 
50 Bt. P Rt. Beh 
51 K to K 3 P to Kt 5 
52 PtoR6 RtoR?7 

Resigns. 

(A) With this and the next move 
I left the beaten track of the 
opening. 

(B) After 10 B t. B, Pt. B, 11Q 
Kt to Q 2, Kt to Kt 3, I would 
soon get a fine attack against the 
adverse King’s quarters, for whether 
White proceed with 12 P to R 3 or 
R 4, my reply would bel2 ....P 
to K R 4 (!) 

(C) The first move of a well- 
conceived stratagem, by which I 
got the superior game. 

(D) White must recover the piece 
temporarily sacrificed, but neither 

Q K nor K Rt. B would be better 
than the text move, e.g.: 
14QRt.B Kt toB5 
Threatening to win a piece by 15 
..-.- PtoR3. 

15 BtoB4 Kt to K 7 ch 
16 K to Rsy K Kt t. P 

17 RtoBsq 

TOURNAMENT. 

Or17 BR to R sq, Q Ktt. P, 18 R 
to R 3, B to Q 5, 19 R to B sq, Kt 
to K 7, 20 R to Q Kt sq, P to 
B 4, &. 

BF iad Ktt. RP 

18 R to R sq Kt to Kt 7 
II. 

14 KE Rt. B Kt to Bd 

Orl4....QRtoK Bsq, 15 Bt. 
Kt, Bt. Pech and 16.... Pt. B. 

15 BtoB4 Kt to K 7 ch 
16 K to B sq K Kt t. P 
17 KRto B sq BtoQs5 

(E) The resource I relied upon 
when I offered to my opponent the 
opportunity to win a Pawn. 

(F) The text move is obviously 
played to permit the retreat of the 
K Kt, which is completely out of 
play—17 Kt to Kt 5 (?), K to B 3. 
The capture of the Pawn would 
lose a piece for three Pawns, which, 
however, being divided on both 
Wings, cannot be considered toge- 
ther with the Knight an equivalent 
for the two hostile Bishops, viz. : 

ly PtP Bt. B 

18 Pt, Kt Bt. Kt 

IS PtP QRtoQ Ktsq 
20 Rt. P ch K to B3 

21 Q RtoK sq BtoK B4 
and 

oe Rt Kt P 

Mr. Tchigorin thought he ought 
to have continued with: 

17 PtoR5 BtoR2 
18 QRtoB sq PtoQs 
19 Pt. P Bt. P 

I freely admit that this would have 
been better, but I fail to see how 
White would guard effectively his 
Pawns on the Queen’s flank after 
Black had protected his Q B P 
with K to Q 3. 

(G) If 18 Pt. P, then 18.... 
Kt t. Kt P,and 19.... Bor Pt, 
P ace. 

(H) The safest continuation, but 

nal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

“ZUKERTORT'S GAMES. 89 

I might have taken the Kt P at 
at once, eg.: 

SE cies Kt t. P 

24 RtoR4 PtoR4 

25 Rt. Kt Pt.B 

26 Rt. B Rto R6 

27 RtoB2 

Or 27 R to Q 5, P to Kt 6, 28 Rt. 

P ch, K to Q 3, 29 K to Q Kt 5, K 

to B 3, 30 R to Kt 4, K to B 4. 

27 . P to Kt 6 

28 R to Kt 2 RtoQ Bsq,&e 
(I) If22....R to Q 5, then 23 

P to Kt 5 (1) 

(J) Which loses the exchange, but 
White must try to get some attack 
at any price, for a quiet line of 
pay in face of the adverse three 

‘awns would lead to a speedy col- 
lapse. 

(K) 32 R to Kt 6 I intended to 
meet with 32.... BtoB 2,33 R 
t. P, R to Kt 84, forcing the ex. 
change. 

(L) 36....K to Kt 3 would 
have won quicker, for nothing could 
stop the R P. 

(M) If 40 Rt. P, then 40. 
P to KR 7, 41 B t. P, Rt. P ch, "42 
K to B sq, Rt. P, &. 

(N) Threatening to win the Rook 
with 44....K to Kt 3. 

Pr ee ae decisive would be 

B, 46 R to R 4, P to 

Kee, 47 Rt. B P [47 R t. R P,P 

to Kt 7], P to R 7, 48 KR to R4, P 
to Kt 7, &. 

(P) Or 46 B to R 2, P to Kt 6, 
47 Bt. P, K to R 4, &e. 

(a) The young student may 
remark that Zukertort, who is the 
acknowledged authority on the 
Evans’ Gambit, and has exhausted, 
by his published analyses, every 
form of this opening, playing to 
the state of his score, which now 
required no risks to be run to insure 
him the first prize, selected to refuse 
the Gambit, and obtain that form 
of the Giuoco Piano, which, in his 
opinion, and that of all masters 
except Mr. Bird, gives a slight but 
decided superiority of position to 
the defence, 

60 

Game 25, played on the 7th of Jutte, 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 

W. Srersirz. J. H. ZuKerrorr. 15 BtoK 3 B to K 2 (F) 
1PtcK4 P to K 4 16 Q Kt toQ2 Castles 

2 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 17 Bto B2(G) PtoQBs 
8 Bto Kt 5 PtoQR3 18 PtoB4 Q Kt to Kt 3 
4BtoR4 Kt to B3 | 1st hour. | 

5 PtQ3 PtoQ3 19 Ktto K Ktsq QtoB2 

6 PtoB3 P to K Kt3 20 P to Kt3 K RtoBsq(H) 
7PtoQ4(A) PtoQKt4(B) 21 PtP QtP 

8 BtoB2 B to Q Kt2(C) 22 Kt to K 2 PtoR4 
9 PtQs Kt to K 2 23 KttoQB3 PtoR5 (1) 
10Pt.QR4 Pt.P(D) 24 Ktt.P(J) Ktt. Kt 
1l Bt. Pch Kt toQ2 25 Pt. Kt B to Q sq 
12 PtoR4(E) PwR3 26 Castles Btok4 
13 PtoRd P to Kt 4 27 QtoK2(K) Bt. Kt 
14 PtoK Kt4 KttoBsq [1st hour. ] 

val fre 
PRINCETO N UNIV ERS SITY 

40 

White. 
238 Qt.B 
29 BtoQ38 
30 PtoB3 

32 K R to Kt sq 
33 BtoB 2 (N) 

34 Qto K 8 

oo 
we 
$ 
i to 
oe 
S 

ot 
oo 

Ono 

Rot 
Brg 

SSsslssss 

GeRYRRON RB 
eCok 

5 

5” 

ssseerae 
ROOK 

or 
na 
sa 

€ > 
NIG Ot Py 

Sa So Sa Se Sr Se St Sr Ot er Ct Cr Gt 
ioe 

S 
POR 
AmrOnnonw TRH ROH 
oe PO > 
a wo 

c 
woot 

COS cP 

SSSSSSSSSSSSSWSSSSSsSsss 
ARO 
a ee 
oo 

MUI SASS 
S 
BROoRe 

J 3) 
NOG Cm OD =O 
aS Snr Ss 
= 
ct 
GD 5 FU py OO 
& oF 

oo 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

ch ot 
s § 
op 
a 
5 

Dwwner 

J 

sseferseksssesr 
to 
€ 

pROO a ROS ends 

WHR RR ROOO AS ROO 

rey 
ce 

a § 
ot 

i-a 

3 

Ssssrersarsr 
a" 

Ce og IO 
(Je) ~ pO by a 

sssss™ 
bo bo x tT 
* ax oe 

A 
bs 
2 

Be 
oo 

oe o 
at than 
on 

(av) 

AMA hn RO 
tc 

pm 
=a 

na 

ARN SRR RR RRR RRR RR 
ce 

Sseessssesssssgse5 

BR 
r= 

White Black. 
78 Rt Kt8ch Kt BS 
79 RtioK R8 P to R 6ch 
80 K to R2 K to B6 (X) 
81 Rto K Kt8 RtoB4 
82 Rto Kt 7 KtoBd 
83 Rto Kt 8 R to B 2(Y) 
84 Rto kt6(Z) KRtQR2 
85 R to B 6 ch K to Kt 4 
86 Rto B2 KtoR5 
87 Rto B sq RtoRS 
88 RtoQ Ktsq Pto Kt6ch 
89 K to R sq PtoR7 
Resigns. 

(A) First played by Rosenthal 
against me in the tenth match 
game, cf. Chess-Monthly, Vol. L., 
p. 333. 

(B) Herr Englisch recommends 
here B to Q 2: the move has the 

- merit of simplifying matters. 

(C) After 8....Pt.P, 9Pt. 
P, White’s centre Pawns might 
rove later on rather weak, but 
Vhite would have more than an 
equivalent in position by the pos- 
session of the open Q B file. 

(D) Quitting the beaten track: 
White gets now, like frequently in 
the Lopez, ashort-lived attack which 
has no chance of success against a 
careful defence. F 

(E) With this and the two next 
moves White creates 2 block on the 
King's side, thus preventing the 
breaking up of his ceutre by the 
advance of Black’s K BP. The 
manceuvre has, however, also its 
disadvantages: it secures Black 
against any attack on the King's 
side, while if weakens White's 
King’s flank considerably. 

(F) Far better than B to Kt 2, 
where the Bishop would be perfectly 
out of play, while from K 2 it can 
be brought into action over Q sq, 
as actually happens later on. 

(G) Mr. Steinitz proposes in his 
annotations to this game 17 Kt to 
B 4 instead of the text move. The 
move may be better, but White 

| 

i 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT S GAMES. 41 

would derive no advantage from 
it, e.g. ¢ 

17 Kt to B 4 Q Kt to Kt3 
18 KttoR5 BtoB sq 
19 Kt to B6 Q to K aq 
20 BtoB2 Kt to BS 
21 Kt toR 2 Bt Q2 

Or 

| eee Kt to B5 

(H) Threatening to continue 

after 21....Pt. P, 22K Pt. P, 

with 22....Ktt.QP. 

(I) Premature: the preparatory 
move, 23.... B to Q sq, would be 
preferable. 

(J) Mr. Steinitz rightly points 
out that he might have played 24 
P to Kt 4, for if 24.... Ktt. P, 
then 25 Kt to Q 5 and 26 Bt. P. 

(K) Mr. Steinitz asserts that 27 
R to B sq would have maintained 
his numerical superiority, but I 
think that this is an error, as the 
following continuation shows: 

27 Rto B sq BtoR8 

28 BtoQ3 

If 28 B to Kt 3, then 28;... Bt. 
Kt, 29 Qt. B, Qt. K P, 30 P to 
B 3, Q to B 3, 31 Q R to Q sq, Kt 
to B 4, &e. 

| ee Bt. Kt 

29 Bt. B 

Or 27 Qt. B, Qt. RP, &. 

29 , Kt to B4 

and Black recovers the Pawn, 
whatever White play. 

(L) 30.... B to R 3 would 
have simplified matters more than 
I wished. 

(M) Of course, 32....BtoR3 
would secure the draw, but the text 
move was more promising in every 
respect, and it complicated matters 
to my advantage. 

(N) After 33 R t. B, QtoQs 
(threatening 34... .Q to Q 5 ch), 
34 R to Q sy, R to Q sq, Black gets 
a well advanced and sufficiently 

rotected Pawn, while 

Vhite’s Q R P is hardly defensible. 

(O) It would be worse than use- 
less to attack the Pawn, e.g.: 

35 R to Kt 3 
If 35 B to R 3, then equally: 

a Qt.Qs 

36 QR RS 

After 36 Rt. P, Rt. KR, 37 Qt. KR, 

Black wins the Bishop with 37.... 

R to B sq, 38 Qto Kt 2, QtoB4 ch. 

36 .... Q to Q7 

37 Qt B2 

After 37 Qt. Q, Pt. Q, 38 B toQ 

sq, Black wins with 38 .... R to 

B8. 

BF v5.08 B to K 7, and 

Black must win. 

(P) Some commentators have as- 

serted that White ought to bave 

rlayed at once R to Q B sy, but 
lack would then win speedily 

with ; 

ror Q to Kt 7 
Threatening 42....R to B 6, and 
43 .... Qt. Pch, &. 

42 KtoKt3(a) RtoB6 

43 Q to K sq Q to R6 

44 Q to BR sq BtoK7 

42 K to Kt 2 RtoBé6 

43 Q to K sq 

Or 43 Q to Q 2, BR to Q 6, 44 Q to 

K sq, R to Q 8. 

Cree BtoK7 

44 P to Kt 7 Bt. P ch 

45 K to R 2 BR to Q 6, &e. 
(Q) Hastily played: 44....K 

to B sq would leave White without 
any chance. Compare the next 
note. 

(R) After 46 K t. P, Bt. B, 47 
Pt. B, Rto Kt 6 ch, 48 K t. P, 
Rt. P, 49 P to Q 6,—if the Black 
King were at K B sq, 49 .... K 
to K sq would dispose at once of 
this defence—Black will win the 
Q P with 49 sore KR toQ R6,—a 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

42 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

move ignored by Mr. Steinitz, who 
gives the ending as won for White 
—50 BR to Q sq, BR to Raq, 51 K 
toQ 3, K to B 3, 52 Kto K 4, K 
to K 3, &e. White has then, how- 
ever, some chances to draw, as his 
King can reach the Pawns. 

(S) After 43 K to K 2, Rto B6, 
Black wins by advancing his King. 

(T) A shorter road to victory 
was pointed out by Mr. Minchin, 
with; 

49 2.5. 
50 K toQ2 

Or 50 Rto Kt 2; if the R moves 
anywhere else, Black wins with 
50.... RtoK Kt 6. 

K to B 3 

50.665 KtoK 4 

51 KtoK2 K t. P 

52 RtQRsq KtoBSd 

53 Rtok6 Kt. P 

54 Rt. P Pto B4 

55 RtoR8 RtoK R6 

56 PtoR6 PtoBs 

57 PtoR7 R to R 7 eh 

58 K to K sq 

Or 58 K to Q 3, K to B 6, 59 R to 

K Kt 8, Rt. P, 60 Rt. P, R to 

Q 2 ch, &e. 

58 .... PtoBé 

59 K to Q sq K to Kt 6 

6ORtoKKt8 Rt.P 

61 Rt. Pch K to B7 
(U) 52.... Pw B4, 53 Pt. 

P [53 RtoQ Rsq, Pt. P, 54 KR 

toR7ch, Rto B 2, continued as 
in the text—compare Black’s 58th 
move], K to B 3, and 64.... Kt. 
P, would again have saved time, 

(V) The only resource which ee 
longs the contest, for after 55 P t. 
P, Kt. P, 56 R to Kt2, Black wins 
at once with 56.... P to Kt5 and 
57.... Kto Kt 4. 

(W) Good enough, but the 
straight road to victory was61.... 
K to B 3, 62 R to Kt sq, K to 
B 4, &e, 

(X) Threatening an immediate 
win with: 
&l 6.9 ¢ 
82 K to R sq 

Or 82 Kt. P, Pto Kt 7, 83 K to 
R2,KtoB?7. If 82 K to Kt sq, 
then 82.... PtoR7ch, 883K toR 
sq, P to Kt 7 ch, 84 K t. P, Kto B7. 

P to Kt 6 ch 

82 4... KtoB?7 
83 RtooK KtS Pto Kt7ch 
84 K to R 2 K toB8 
85 R to Kt 6 RtoB7 
Nevertheless, the threat is easily 
obviated, while 80 .... Rto B 4 

followed by 81.... BR to K 4 
would force the game against any 
play. Compare the next note. 

(Y) A successful attempt to 
shorten the fight, but the win 
could only be forced with: 

os eee R to K 4 
84 Rto BS ch K to Kt 4 
85 Rto Kt 8 ch KtoR 5 
86 Rto B8 ch RtoR4 
87 Rto K Kt 8 Rto R2 
88 Rto Kt 6 R to R 2, 
and wins. 

(Z) For White could now com- 

vel Black to adopt the line of play 

just examined by playing the Rook 
to any square on the 8th row, 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 43 

Game 26, played on the Sth of June. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. 
8. Wrivawer. J. H. ZcKentorrT. 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 4 
2 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 
3 Bto Kt 5 PtoQR3 
4BtoR4 Kt to B38 
5 Pt Q3 B to B4(A) 
6 Castles (B) PtoQKt4(C) 
7 Bto Kt 3 PtoQ3 
8 Bt Kt5(D) PtoR3 
9 Bt. Kt Qt. B 
10 B to Q 5 (EB) BtoQ2 
ll PtoB3 Castles, K R 
12 PtoQ4 B to Kt 3 
13 PtoQR4 QR to Kt sq 
144 RPt. P RPt.P 
15 Qt. Q3 P'to Kt 5 (F) 
16 Bt. Kt Bt. B 
17 PtoQs5 Bt Q2 
18 Q Kt to Q2(G) Pt. P 
19 P+ P QtoK2 
20 K to R. sq PtoK B4(H) 
21 Pt. P Rt P 
22 QRto Ksq QRtoK Bsq 
93 Rto K 2 @ to B2 (1). 
24 KttoK4 Rto BS 
25 K Kt to Q 2 Bto B4 
26 PtoB3 P to B3 (J) 
27 PtoB4 PtP 
298 Pt. P BtoQ5 
29 PtoKt3(K) Bt. Kt 
30 Ktt. B Rt. P 
31 Rt. B Q t. R ch 
32 Qt. Q Rt. Q 
33 Ktt. P RtoQ6 
34 Kt to K 4 B to Kt 3 
35 PtoQé RtoQ5 
36 K to Kt 2 B to R 4(L) 
Given up as a draw. 

(A) Morphy’s favourite continua- 
tion. 

(B) 6 P.to B 3 is the classical 
reply; the German Handbuch pre- 
fers the text move. 

(C) The same authority gives as 
best repl . Castles, which 
certainly I cannot approve of. 

(D) Very weak, I think. 8 B to 
K3,8PtoQ R4or8PtoB3 
may be recommended, either of the 
three being far better than the text 
move. 

(E) The best resource at White’s 
disposal, to prevent the pinning of 
his Kt. If 10 P to K R3, then 
10.... P to Kt 4, &. 

(F) * well-planned reply, which 
frustrates Winawer's little design 
to win a Pawn after 15.... Kt to 
K 2 (?), with 16 P t. P, Pt. P,17 
Bt. P ch, Rt. P, 18 Qt. B. 

(G) If 18 Pt. P, Black wins the 
exchange with 18.... Bto Kt 4, 
for it is obvious that White dare 
not capture the Bishop. 

Pe My opponent suggested here 
..P to Kt 3, to be followed 
by a. Dt KB 4, which 
would be stronger, perhaps, than 
the immediate advance of the 
K BP. 

(I) 23....Bto K sq would be 
bad on account of 24K toQ4 I 
think, however, that [ ought to have 
played at once R to B 5, threatening 
B to K B 4 or Kt 5 ace. 

(J) Of doubtful merit, but I 
failed to find any advantageous 
continuation. If 26... Rto R 5, 
then 27 P to Kt 4; if 26....P to 
Kt 4, then 27 P to Kt 3. 

(K) This and White’s next move 
force a series of exchanges, which 
naturally leads to an early draw. 

(L) 37 ..... B to Kt 5 will dis- 
pose of the hostile passed Pawn, 
but, of course, cannot effect more 
than a draw, 

—_— o— 

lreour 31 re L 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

dt 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 27, played on the 9th of June, 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
J. H. ZvKxentont. 8. Wisawen. 43 Pto Bd Pt. P 
1PtcQ4 PtoQ4 44 Bt. Kt Bt.B 
2PtoK3 BtoB4 45 Kt to B sq B to B 8 (M) 
3 Kt to K B3 PtoK3 46 Kt to K 3 B to Kt 7 
4 BtoK2 BtoQ3 47 KttoB2(N) KtoK3 
5 Castles KttoK B3 48 KtoK 3 Bto B6 
6 PtoB4 PtoB3 49 K to Q3 BtoR4 
7 KttoB3 Q Kt to Q 2 50 KtoK 2 BtoB6 
8 PtoBS5 Bto B2 te [3rd hour. ] 
9 PtoQ Kt 4 PtoQR3(A) 51 KtoK 3 P to R 4 (0) 
10PtQR4 Kttokt5(B) 52 KtoK2(P) BtoKt7 
ll PtoK RB PtoK R4 53 K to Q3 Bto BB 
12 BtoKt2(C) BtoK5 54 Kt to K 3 Bto R6 
13 P to Kt5 Bt. Kt 55 Kt to Bag (Q) Bto Kt 5 
14 Bt. B QtoKt4(D) 56 KttoQ2 K toQ2 
15 TP to Kt 6 (!) B to Q sy _ [2nd hour. 3 
16 Pt. Kt (E) PtP 57 KtoK3 Kto K 3 
[1st hour,] 58 Kt to Kt 3 Bto BE 
17 Bt. P P to B4 (!) 59 Kt to B sq B to Kt 5 (R) 
18 Pto B4(!) Q t. B (F) 60 Kt to Q3 Bto BG 
19 Qt. Q Pt.Q [4th hour. ] 
20 PtoK4 BtoB3 fl Ktto B4ch K to B 2 (5) 
21 PtoK 5 B to K 2 (G) 62 Ktt. P Pt. Kt 
22 K to B2 Castles, Q R 63 P to BG P to BS ch 
(H) 64 Pt. P(T) B t. P ch (!) 
23 K to Kt3 Kt to B sq (1) 65 | t. B P to Kt 6 
24 RtoRsq(J) KttoKt3 66 Pt. P P wo Kt7 
25 Kt. P Kt to R5 67 P queens P queens ch 
26 P to Kt 3 Kt to B 4 68 Kt. P Q to Q Bch 
27 KttoK2 Q R to B sq 69 K to BS Q to B7 ch 
[1st hour. | 0 Kio Q6 Q to Q8ch(U) 
28 Bto B3 Kt to R 3 ch 71 KtoB? QtP 
29 K to B3 P to Kt 4 72 QtoQs Q to B 5 ch 
30 RtoRS5(K) Pto Ktich 73 K to Kt 8 Q to Kt 4(V) 
31 K to Kt2 Kt to B 2(L) 74 QtoBé6éch KtoK sq 
32 QRto R sy Rt. R 75 Q to K 6 ch K to Q sy 
33 Rt. RK R to R sq 76QtoQ6ch KtoK sy 
34 Rt. Rech Kt t. R x ¥ [5th hour. ] 
35 Kt to B sq Kt to B2 77 PtoK6 P to R 5(W) 
36 Kt to Kt 3 Kt to R 3 78 PtoBS(X) PtoR6 
37 KtoB2 K to Q 2 79 PtoBé6 Resigns. 
38 BtoQ 2 Kt to B 4 
39 Bto K3 B to B sq (A) Worse than useless, for it 
40 Kt toQ2 K to K2 weakens his Pawn's position with- 
41 Kt to B sy K to Q2 out stopping the hostile advance. 
‘2nd hour. ] Pping 
42 KttoR2 Kt to R8 (B) A premature attack which 

inal fron 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES, 45 

has not the slightest chance of 
success. 

(C) 12 B to Q 2 would have 
saved time, as the sequel slows, 
but in playing it to Kt 2, I wanted 
to keep open Q 2 for the K Kt, if 
required. 

(D) Intending 15.... Kt t. K 
P, 16 Pt. Kt, Qt. K P ch, 17 K to 
R sq, Q to B 5, &e. 

(E) 16 Bt. Kt, Pt. B, 17 Qt. 
P would win a Pawn, but I pre. 
ferred the continuation in the text, 
which results in the break up of 
Black's position on the King’s side 
and must finally wina Pawn. After 
re-examining, however, the position 
I think that my strongest continua- 
tion was 16 PtoK 4. Itis obvious 
that Black dare not take the Pawn 
—16....Pt.P,17 Ktt. P, Q to 
R 6 [17....Q to B 5, 18 P to 
Kt 3}, 18 Kt to Q 6 ch and 19 Kt 
t. Kt P—and if either Knight to B 
3, then 17 PtoK 5 orl7 Pt. P 
acc. with important gain of time 
and position. 

(F) Black had no means to keep 
up a promising attack even at the 
expense of a piece, viz. : 

Brive Q to Kt 8 

If 18....QtoR5 or R 3, then, 
of course, 19 B to R 8. 

19 BtoB3 BtoR5 

Or19....Qto Kt 6, 20BtoR5 
ch, K to B sq, 21 R to B3, QtoR 
5,22 RtoR3. 

20 Kt to K 2 

Disastrous would be 20 Q to Kt 3 
or B 2, Q to Kt 6(!), 21 KttoK 
2,QtoR7 ch, 22 Kt.Q, BtoB7 

ch and mates on the next move. 
ee ldset QtoR3 

21 QtoB2 P to Kt 4 
$3 Pt P Bt. P 

23 KttoB4 

(G) Threatening 22 .... Kt t. 
B P, 23 Pt. Kt, Bt. P ch (!). 

(H) Utilising his King for the 
pisoton of the weakest point in 
is game, the Q Kt P. 

(I) It would be useless to pro- 
tect the Pawn with 23....R to R 
5, for White would in two moves 
bring the Knight to bear upon it. 

(J) Deceptive: the position of 
the Rook interferes afterwards 
with the movements of Knight and 
Bishop, which dare not be played 
on the first row. I ought to have 
continued with 24 Kt to Q sq and 
25 Kt to K 3. 

(KX) I was well aware of Black's 
clever scheme to create a bloek, but 
I did not exert myself to prevent 
its accomplishment, relying entirely 
on my counter maneuvre. Analysis 
proves that I overrated the ad- 
vantage of the position resulting 
from it. [ought to have continued 
with 30 P to Kt 4, and if 80 .... 
P t. P, then 31 B to Q 2. 

(L) Well played: if 81.... Kt 
to B 4, then 32 Q R to Raq, and 
White remains in the possession of 
the open file. 

(M) Herr Winawer and myself 
overlooked here a defence which 
would have secured the draw, while 
the line of play adopted does not 
save the game. The main feature 
of the proper defence is to put the 
Bishop on the diagonal from Q sq to 
Kt 4 and keep it there all through. 
The following variation will prove 
the soundness of the defence, but it 
shows at the same time that it re- 
quires very minute and accurate 
handling: 

OF B to Kt 4 (!) 
46 KttoK3(a) KtoK3 
47 Kt to B2 BtoK2 
48 KttoKt4 BtoQsq 
49 K to K 2 K toQ 2 

50 Kt to Q 3 B to Kt 4 
51 PtoK 6 ch 

The only chance to enter Black’s 
gime with the Knight, 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

46 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Bl eas atP 

52 KttoK5 B to Q sq 
53 KtoQ3 K to K2 
54 Kto K 3 K to B3 (1) 

The only move: if 54.... 
8, White wins with 55 K to B 4, K 
to B 3, 56 Kt to Q 3, K to BS, 57 
Kt to Kt 4, 7 aba 3, 08 Ktto B2 

K to K3 [ _K to Kt 3, 59 
K to K 5], 59 Kio K 8. 
5] KtoB4 K to K 3, 

and if 56 Kt to Q 3, then 56 . 
Bto B38. 

a. 

46 KtoK 2 K to K 3 
47 Kt toQ2 B to Q sq 
48 Kt to Kt 3 K to Q2 
49 KttoR5 K to B sq 
50 P to K 6 Bt B3 
51 Kto K 3 B to Kt 4 ch 

and draws by keeping the Bishop 
on the diagonal. 

(N) Of course, if 47 Kt t. B P, 
then 47.... K toK 3, 48 Kt to Kt 
7 ch, K to B 2, &e. 

(O) My King’s manceuvre has 
thrown the initiative on Black, who 
took here over an hour in examin- 
ing the position. Its extreme diffi- 
culty will be best illustrated by 
giving the two continuations re- 

sulting from 51....Bto R 4 and 
51....Bto Kt7. 
I, 
eer BtR4 
62 K to Q 3 K moves 
53 Kt to K 3 K to K3 
i+ Kt to Kt 2 B to Kt 6 
55 Ktto B4 ch K toQ2 

The only King’s move which pre- 
vents 56 Kt t. P. 

56 Kt to R 5 BtoK8 
57 KtoK38 K to Q sq 

Any other King’s move is worse. 

58 KitoKt7 BtP 
59 Ktt.P BtoR? 
Or 59.... BtoK 8, 60 KttoQ 6. 

60 K to B2 

61 Kt to Q 6, &e. 

Ba) gis-cee 
52 Kt to Kt 4 
53 Kt t. R P 

Tf 53 .... Pt, Kt, _the 
K 6 ch, &e.; if 53. 

Bt BS 

B to Kt 7 
K toQ2 
Bt B6 

nid4 Pt 
-BtoB 

ch, then b4KtoK'S. 
54 Ktto Kt8ch K moves 

55 Kt t. P 

(P) If 52 K to Q 3, then 52.... 
Bto Kt 7, with the eontinuation in 

the text. 52.... 

B to Kt 5 would 

lead to a forced loss after ; 

53 Kt t. B Pt. Kt 

54 PtoRS P to B5 (best) 

55 PtoR6 BP t. P (best) 

56 Pt. P P to Kt7 

57 P queens P queens 

58 Q to Q 6 ch K to B2 

59 Qto B6ch K to Kt sq 

Of course, if 59 .... K to KE sq, 

then 60 Q t. P ch, &e. 

60 PtoK 6 Q to Kt 6 ch 
(best) 

61 KtoK 2 Q to Kt 7 eh 

62 QtoB2 Q to K 5 ch 

63 QtoK3 Q to Kt 7 ch 

Or 63. 

. Qto B 7 ch, 64 K to 

K sq, Q to Kt 8 ch, 65 K to B2,Q 

checks, 66 K to Kt 3, 

64 K to Q sq 
65 KtoB2 

Or 65 . 
Kt 3. 

66 K to Kt 2 

Qt BSch 
Q to B5b ch 

.. Q to Kt 7 ch, 66 K to 

(Q) I overlooked here the forced 

win with: 

55 KtoB2 
56 Kt io Kt 2 

Bto Kt5 
K to Q2 

Tf the King move anywhere else, 
then 57 Kt to B 4 and 58 Kt t. P. 

57 KtoQ3 

KtokK8 

1f57....K to B sq, Q sq or K 
a then 5B Kt to K 3; if 
K to K 2, then equally : 

PRINC ETO N UNIV ERS SITY 

ZUKERTORT'S GAMES. 47 

58 Kt to B 4ch K toQ2 
59 Kt toR 5 Btok 8 
60 K to K 3, and wins as given in 
Variation I, note (O). 

(R) Herr Winawer pointed out 
that he had here a draw with : 

Te BtokK8 
60 Kt to K 2 K to B 2 (!) 

The saving move: if 60....K to 
Q 2 or K 2, then 61 K to B 4, K to 
K 3, 62 K to Kt 5, B to Q7 ch, 63 
Kt to B4ch,andwins. If60.... 
B to Kt 5, then 61 Kt to B4 ch, K 
to Q 2, 62 Kt to R 5, Ke. 

61 Kt to B 4 

If 61 K to B 4, then 61....K to 
3 ('), threatening mate; if 61 

K to Q 3, then 61.... B to BZ. 
BP Ges ate Bt. P 

62 Ktt. P KtoK3 
63 Kt to B7 ch 

If 63 Kt to B6 or B3, then 63.... 
Bt. P, 64 Pt. B, Kt. P, and Black 
will draw without any difficulty. 

(T) Hastily played: of course, 
64 K t. P would have saved all 
further trouble. 

(U) Or 70 ....QtoQ7 ch, 71 
K to B 6, Q to Kt 7 ch [71 . 
Qt. P (?), 72 P to K 6 ch], 72 K 
to B 7, &e. 

(V) 73.... Qt. P offered at 
least the chance that White might 
be tempted to exchange Queens at 
B 6 and ey throw away the 
game, viz. 

74 Q to BG ch Qt.Q 

75 Pt.Q PtoR5 
76 P to Kt 7 PtoR6 

77 KtoB2 P to R 7, &e. 

I saw, however, that little trap and 
intended to continue with 74 P to 
Kt 7,PtoR 5 [(74....Qt. Pech, 
75 Q to B7 ch], 75 K to R7, 

(W) Kindly assenting to the ex- 
change of Queens, which of course 
would enable Black to draw after 
78 Q to Q7 ch, Qt. Q, 79Pt.Q 

63 .... " KtwQ2, ch, K t. P, 80 P to Kt 7, P to R 6, 
and White cannot win. 80 K toR7 7, Pto R7, &. 
(8S) If 61 ....K to Q 2, then (X) I might have saved a move 
62 Kt to R 5, &.—f. note (0). with 78 Q to B 7, 

8 

Game 28, played on the 11th of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING, 

White. Black. 
J.H.Zoxerrorst. J. H. Bracxaveys. 
1PtQ4 PtoK 38 
2 KttoK B3 KttoK B3 
3 PtoK3 PtoQ4 
4 Bt.Q8(A) BtoK2 
5 Castles Castles 
6 PtoQ Kt 3 PtoB4 
7 Bto Kt 2 Kt to B3 
8 Q Kt toQ2(B) Pt. P(?) 
9 PtP P to Q Kt 3 
10 PtoB4 B to RB 3 (C) 
ll RtoK sq R to B sq 

White. Black. 
12 Rito QBsq Kt to R 4 
13 Kt to K 5 B to Kt 5 (?) 
14 P to B5 (!) Bt. B 
15 Kt t. B Bt. Kt 
16 Qt. B Kt to K 5 
Ist hour.]} 
17 QtoK 3 to K sq 
18 PtoB3 Kt to K B3 
19 RtoB2 Kt to Q2 
20 K Rt QBsq Pt. P(D) 
21 PtP Kt to Ktsq(E) 
22 KttoK 5 P to B3(F) 

PRI NCETO N UNI JERS oT Y 

48 LONDON CHESS 
White. Black. 

23 P to B 6 (!) R to B 2 (G) 

24 QtoQ2(H) Pt. Kt 

25 Qt. Kt Q to B sq (I) 

26 Bt. P R to B24) 

27 Bt. Kt Qt.B 

28 PtoB7 Q to B sq 
Ist hour. ] 

20 DURP P to K 4 

30 Rto BS PtoK 5 

3L Rte Kt 5 Q Rto B sq 

32 Rto Kt 8 Q to Q2 

33 Rt RK Rt R 

34 Q to R 4 Qt. Q 

35 Pt. Q RtoQB sq 

36 Pt. P PtP 

37 KtoB2(K) KtoB2 

38 Kto K 8 KtoK 3 

$9 Kt.P P to Kt 3 

40 R to B 6 ch K to Q2 

41 KtoQ5 Resigns 

(A) The hostileQ Pbeing already 
advanced, I played the Bishop to Q 
8 in accordance with my views on 
the development in close games, 
given previously in my annotations 
to this collection, 

(B) I developed the Kt to Q 2, 
determined to fight the whole battle 
on the Queen's side, 

(C) The commencement of a 

TOURNAMENT. 

decide the contest before Black can 
make any use of his strong centre. 

E) If 21.... Kt to B 3, then 
22 P'to Q Kt 4 

(F) After 22. oahu A, 
23 Ktt. Kt, Kt t. Kt [23 . 
Kt, 24 Bto B 3) , Lintended to 
ceed with 24 PEO Kt 4, for po 
not take the Pawn on account 

of 25 Q to B 8 (!) 
(G) The capture of the Knight 

would be immediately disastrous, 
e.g.: 

Se Pt. Kt 

24 Po B?7 Q to Q2 (K 2) 

25 Pt. Kt,Q Rt. Q 
26 R to B 7, and 
27 Qor Bt. P acc. 

(H) The right reply ; m7 BtoB 
3 would lose a piece by 24....P 

to Q5(!). 

(I) If 25.... Ktt. P, then 26 
Q to R4, winning the Knight. 

(J) Black dare not play 26. 
Rt. P, for White would then force 
the win with 27 Qt. R P, 

(K) The Field gives the prettier 
conclusion : 

futile attack, and nearly identical aA ee 7 : 7 rid 4. 

err Englisch against me—cf. 23 
fasee 19: 40 R to Q sq ch Kt. P 

(D) This exchange gives White Or 40.... K to BS, Rto QB, &c, 
a crushing superiority of numbers 41 RtoBsqeh K moves 
on the Queen’s side, which must 42 Rt. R, &. 

no \ i} : ; A / 

’ —_—o— 

revoir 1 re L 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 49 

Game 29, played on the 12th of June. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
8. Rosertnan. J, H. Zccertonr. 42 RtoK5(0) Bt P 
1PtoK4 PtoK4 Bee Ste) Ree 
2KttoKB3 KttoQB3 signs. 
3 Bto Kt 5 PtoQR3 ae 
ABORS — Keto gg (A) Leading by 0 tranepossion 
5 PtcQ3 Bto B4 of the Four Knights’ Opening ’ 
6 KttoB3(A) PtoQKt4 8) Seat : ' 8 
7 Bto Kt3 P to 3 ending to early exchan 
8 KttoQ5(B) Kt toe 4 and a speedy draw. ; i 
9 BtoKt5(C) PtB3 C) 9 B to K 8 would be prefer- 
4 iy to K a PtoR$3 aber think. - mn 
12 eae? OM EtS _ (D) Very weak, for at the best 
13 Q to K 2 Kt t. B it can but lead to the exchange of 
14RPt. Kt Kt to R4(D) boat Knight against a Bisho 
Pw EF) KstoBE) Lema vey onbor per: 
> , Viz, : 
o hs , oe a (F) --.-Bto K 3 (preventing 15 P to 
18 K KttoR 4 Q to B38 (G) B3),and14...,PtoK R4, 
19 Castles, QR R to K Kt sq (E) Having compromised the 
20 PwQ4 Sie P. cae by the last move, I ought 
st hour to have been satisfied with a draw, 
21 hee e Re Kt 5 ag: could easily get with 15 
22 PtwK 5 Pt. P (H) ..-. Kt t. B16 RP t. Kt, Bt. 
23 Pt. P Q to Kt 4 Kt, 17 Qt. B,Q t. Q ch, 18 P t. 
24 Kt to Q6ch(I) Bt. Kt Q, P to B 3, &e. 
25 fet hour ihe (F) After 17.... Bt. Kt, 18P 
96 Oto Re PtoB6ch srt Se ree White wins a Pawn, 
27 Rt Q2 KtoBeq(3) “t ctl 
298 P to Kt 3 BtoQ4 (G) If 18....Qto Kt 4, then 
29 Rto K sq R to Q sq 19 P to Q Kt 4. 
30 RtoK3(K) QtoB3 (H) A serious mistake, which 
8L QRtwoQ3 R to Kt 4 might have proved fatal. I ought 
ea oe od mr to have continued with 22....Q 
: . 0 to Kt 4 or K 3. 
33 QtoB3 Rt. P : 
ip tg xo Kes (I) Overlooking 24 Q to K 4 (1), 
85 P to K Kt4 RtoBs which would gain the exchange at 
36 Kt toR 4 R to K 3 (L) least. 
37 Kt to Bd ch i ay : 2 j “ () pes ae Spd recovers 
our. e lost ground. e text move 
38 PtoB3 Bt. Kt P (!) rotects indirectly both Pawns— 
39 Rto B3 B to Q 4 : Qt.P,R to Beq; 288Kit P 
40QtoB8(M) RtR Q t. P—and it enables Black to 
41 Rt. R Bt. P(N) bring his Rooks inte co-operation, 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

50 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(K) 30 Qto B3 would be a little 
better. 

(L) Superfluous caution; I had 
determined some moves previously 
to continue with 36,....Rt. P(!), 
but I now forgot all about it, and 
played mechanically the threatened 
Rook. 

(M) White must pursue even 
the semblance of an attack at an 
price, for his prospects of an end- 
game are nil. 

(N) Decisive: 41,.... Rt. BP 
would lose, for White would reply 
42 R to K 8 (!). 

(O) White has no saving move: 
if 42 Pto R 3, then 42,...Rto 

exchange to escape a forced mate. 
If 42 Rto K 8, then 42....R ft. 
P, &e. Equally disastrous would 
be: 

42 R to K 6 
43 K to Kt sq 

If 43 K to Q 2, Black mates in two 
moves. 

R to Bd ch 

43... B to K 5 ch 

42 KtoR2 Rto R45 ch 

43 K to Kt 3 Q t. R ch, &e. 
(P) An opportune — blunder : 

White had two moves which pre- 
vented the loss of a piece, viz.: 43 
Kt to K 7 and 48 BR to K 8, but in 
either case Black would force the 

B 5ch,43 K to Kt sq, BtoK 5 game, beginning with 43... . R to 
ch, and White must sacrifice the B5 ch. 
——+94—— 

Game 30, played on the 13th of June. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
G. HH. Macxexzre. J. H. ZvuKkertort. 25 R oe 4 Q - 64 © 
1PtwK4 PtoK 4 26 Rt 0 e 
2KttoKBS KttoQB3 27 Q to Bag RK to Q8 
3 Bto Kt 5 PtoQR3 28 Qt. BR Resigns 
rp ene = He 8 (A) Introduced by Anderssen, 
5 Castles tt and invariably played by myself. 
: eae by 3 By 8 is 4 The move, I think, is iaewge # to 
i i Pe press th 
8Pt.P Kt to K 2(A) see continuation 8 > 
9 Kt to Kt 5 Kt t. Kt - 
10 Bt. Kt Bto Kt 2 (B) If 11....P to Q B4, 
11 QtoB3 Q to Q 2 (B) White would reply with 12 P to B 
12 KttoQ2(C) PtoR3 4(‘),Q Pt. P, 13 Qt. B, P t. B, 
13BtoKR4 KttoB4 14 Pt. P,Q to B sq (best), 15 Q 
14 QtoR3 Kt t. B(D) t. Q ch, Rt. Q, 16 Kt. P, Xe. 
15 Qt. Kt Bto K 2 (C) If now P to B 4, then 12 
16 Q to Kt 3 Castles, K R calgus Whe ty t. of tr B ig ea B 
17 PtoQB3 PtoQ5 4.—12 Kt to B3 wou , how- 
18 K Rto Ksq(E) K toR sq ever, better, I think, than the text 
19 Bt. P (F) P t. P (!) move. 
20 KttoB3(G) PtP (D) Of course, if 14.... P to 
21 QRtoKtsq Bt. Kt (H) Kt 4 (intending to proceed after 15 
22 Pt.B Qto Qh Bto Kt 3 (?) with 15....Pto K 
23 B to Kt 6 BtoR5 FR 4), then 15 Q Bt. P. 
24 Q to Kt 2 QR to Q sq (E) Threatening 19 P to K 6. 

imal tre 

PRINCETON UNI VERSITY 

ZUKERTORT’S GAMES. 51 

(F) Overlooking the opponent's 
eounter scheme, 

(G) If 20 Qt. P, then 20.... 
Rt. B, 21 P to K 6,QtoQ4 (1), 
remaining a piece ahead. 

(H) 21.... Rt. B would prob- 
ably lead to a draw by the follow- 

ing interesting line of play : 
22 PtoK 6 Rt. Kt 
23 Pt. Q Rt.Q 
24 Rt. B(best) Rt. Pch 
25 K to B sq Rt. P 
26 Rto K 8 ch KtoR2 
27 KtoK 2 

If 27 Rt. R, Black draws at least 
with 27....Rto R8 ch, 28 K to 
K 2, Rt. R, 29 Rto R 8 ch (29 P 
queens (?), R to K 8 ch, 30 K to 
Q 2 (or 30 K t. R, P queens ch, 
&e.), R to Q 8 ch, 31 K t. R, P 
queens ch, 32 K moves, Bt. R, 33 
Q t. B, Q t. P ch, and wins], K to 
Kt 3,30 P queens, R to K 8 ch, 
31 K t. R(best), P queens ch, &e.— 
If 27 BR t. P, Black wins with 27 
.... Bto B 6, 28 K to K aq, R to 
R 8 ch, 29 K to Q 2, BR to Q8 ch, 
and 29.... Bt. P. 

different colour, but it enabled me 
to defenl the far-advanced Q 
Kt P. 

(I) A mental aberration; Black 
had an easy won game after: 

eee Q to Q8ch 
26 R to K sq 

Or 26 Q to B sq, B t. P ch (1), 27 
K t. B [27 K to Raq, Qt. P ch, 
28 Q to Kt 2, R to Q8 eh, &e.}, Q 
t. P ch, 28 K to Kt sq, Qt. Q ch, 
29R t.Q, Rt. Reh, 30 K t. R, P 

queens ch, &e. 

26 ois QtQ7 

27 Bw EK 4 

Tf 27 P to K 6, then 27....Rto 
Q4. 

27 ase R to Qi 

28 Q to Kt 6 Bt. P ch 

29 K to R sq Rt. B 

30 Qt R 

If 30 Rt. R, then 30....QtoB 
8 ch. 

30 .... 
31 Qt.B 

Or 31 Rt. B, Rt. P, 32 Pto K 
6, R to K R 6, and wins. 

BtR 

Sigtete B 
ee ow eae Qt. Qch 
29 K Rt. P Rto RS 88 Bt Q et F 
30 Rt. P, &e. and 
The text move leads to Bishops of oe Gas Rtok 6 

o==066———= 
Game 31, played on the 14th of June, 
SICILIAN DEFENCE. 

White. Black. White. Black 
A. G, SELEMAN, J. H. ZvKERtToRT, 9 QtoK 2 BtoQ2 
1PtoK4 PtoQB4 10 Q KR to Q sq Q to B 2 (C) 
2 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 ll K KttoKti Qto Kt sq 
3 PtoQ4(A) PtP 12 BtoB4 Ptok4 
4Ktt.P KttoB3 13 Bto Kt 5 PtoQR3 
5 KttoQB3 P to Q3 (B) 14 Bt. Kt PtB 
6 BtoQbB4 PtoK3 15 Kt t. P (D) Bt. Kt 
7 Castles Bto K 2 16 Q to Q 3 (E) Kt to Q5 
8 BtoK 3 Castles 17 Kt to Q5 B to K 3 (F) 

Ireginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

52 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
18 Ktt. P ch K to R sq (G) 
19 Bt B t. B 
20 Kt to Q7 Q to B2 
21 Ktt. RK B t. Kt (H) 
22 PtoQB3 Kt to Kt 4 (1) 
23 Qt.Q7 Q to Kt 3 
24 KRtoQ3 B to Kt 2 
25 Rto Kt3 R to K Kt sq 
26 Rto Q sq Kt to R2 
27 QtoKB7 KttoB3 (J) 
28 Rt. B (il) Rt.R 
29 Qto BS ch R to Kt sq 
30 Q to B 6 ch R to Kt 2 
31 RtoQ7 Resigns. 

(A) If 3 Kt to B 3, which is 
considered to be the best continua- 
tion, I intended to reply 3... . Kt 
to B 3,a move played in the late 
Vienna Tournament by L. Paulsen. 

(B) Better, I think, than 5.... 
P to K 3, which gives to the first 
player the opportunity to continue 
with 6 K Kt to Kt 5 or 6 Kt t. Kt, 
Kt Pt. Kt, 7 P to K 5. 

(C) Provoking the attack of the 
hostile Knights, which, I thought, 
would finally result in White losing 
time and position. 

(D) White has no choice: if 15 
Kt to R 3, then 15.... P to Kt 4 
winning a@ piece. 

(E) Mr. Steinitz gives here in his 
annotations to this game the follow- 
ing continuation : 

“16 Q to Q2 Kt toQ5 
17 Qt KRG Q to Q sq 
18 Kt to Q5 Bto K 2 
19 Rt Q3 K to R sq 

20 P to B 4, with a fine attack,” 

I think, however, that Black has a 
satisfactory defence, viz. : 

OO. 6 s.t R to K Kt sq 
2 ee R to Kt 3 

22 QtoR4 BtoQ B4ch 
23 K to KR sq PtP, 

and althongh White's attack is not 
exhausted yet, it is certainly no 
equivalent for the lost piece, 

(F) A blunder which leads to 
the loss of the exchange and of the 
game. Black should come out with 
a decisive superiority of forces 
after : 
| ee Q to Q sq 
18 PtoB3 
Or 18 Q to Kt 3 ch, K to R sq, 19 
Rt. Kt (?), Rto K Kt sq and 20 
phy de he 

eS 
19 Pt. Kt 
Or 19 Q to Kt 3 ch, K to R sq, 20 
B to Q 3, Kt to K 3, de. 

P to Kt 4 

1D cass Pt. B 

20 Q to Kt 3 ch K to R sq 
21 QtoR4 R to K Kt sq 
22 Qt. BPeh(a) Qt. Q 

23 Ktt.Q Bto Kt 4 
24 Ktt. R Rt. Kt 

and Black’s two Bishops ought to 

win. 

a. 
22 Kt t. P R to Kt 2 
23 Pt. P Bt. P 
24 Rt. B Qt. Kt 

(G) I might have still drawn 
with: 
st rer 
19 Q to Kt 3 ch 
If 19 Bt. B, then 19.... K t. Kt, 
20 BtoQ 5, R to Kt sq, 21 P to 
B 3, Kt to K 3, with a winning 
superiority of material, 

K to Kt 2 

| ee K t. Kt 
20QtoR4ch KtoKt2 
21 QtoKtich KtoR sq 

22 Q to B 6 ch, &e. 

(H) Of course, if 21....R t. 
Kt, then 22 P to B 3, Kt to Kt 4, 
23 P to Q R 4, winning a piece. 

(I) This and Black’s next move 
were played to avoid the exchange 
of Queen’s which must have proved 
ruinous to Black, whose scattered 
Pawns would be then indefensible. 
But by letting White’s Queen 
undisturbed in my ranks, I gave 

| from 
NIVERSITY 

ir 

PRINCETON U 

ZUKERTORT'S GAMES. 53 

Mr. Sellian an opportunity to dis- 
play his powers of combination, of 
which he availed himself with rare 
eee and brilliancy of the highest 
order. 

(J) If 27....Q t. P, White 

mates in three moves, beginning 
with 28 Q t. Bch.—27....P to 
R 3 would be equally ineffective as 
the text move, for White wins then 
with 28 P to K R 3 and 29 R 
to Q 7. 

Game 32, played on the 15th of June. 
EVANS’ GAMBIT. 

White. Black. 
J. H. ZuKerrort. J. MORTIMER. 
1PtoK4 PtoK 4 
2 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 
3 Bt B4 BtoB4 
4 PtoQ Kt 4 Bt. P 
5 PtoBs BtoR4 
6 PtoQ4 Pt. P 
7 Castles PtP 
8 QtoKt3 QtoB3 
9 PtoK 5 Q to Kt 3 
10 Ktt. P K Kt to K 2 
11 BtoR3 RtoQKtsq(A) 
12 KttoQ5(B) Ktt. Kt (C) 
13 Bt. Kt Kt to Q sq (D) 
14 QRtoQ sq P to Kt 4 
15 RtoQ4 P to Kt 5 
16 KttoR4 Q to Kt 3 
17 Bto Kt 2 KttoK 8 
18 KttoB5(!)) Pte Kt3(E) 
19 Bt. Kt BPt. B(F) 
20 KttoKt7ch K to Qsq (G) 
21 Kt t. P ch K to K 2 
22 KttoB4(H) Btokt2 
23 Rt. P ch (1) Kt R 
24 QtoB7 ch K to B sq 
25 PtoK 6 Bto R3(J) 
26 R to QB sq (KX) R to Q 8q 
27 PtoK 7 K to Kt 2 
28 Pt. Rqueens Rt. Q 
29 KttoK6(L) RtQ4(M) 
30 B to B 6 (N) Q to B 3(!) 
31 KR to R sq BtoBsd 
82 QtoK7 QtoQ3 
33 Qt. Q Rt Q 
34 Kt to Bd ch KtoB3 
385 Kt to K 4 Rt K3 
36 PtoB3 B to Kt 3 ch 
37 K to Req B to Q 4 

White. Black. 
38 RtoQBsqech Kto Kt 4 
39 Bto Kt 5 Bt. Kt 
4 Pt. B Rt. P 
41 PtoK R4 PtoK R3 
42 BtoQs PtoB4 

(A) The Hawlbuch gives it as 
Anderssen’s defence: I would rather 
call it one of the many experiments 
of the late Master.—I do not con- 
sider it satisfactory: the variation 
11 B to R 3 represents, in my 
opinion, the most lasting form of 
attack in the “compromised,” and 
its defence stands and falls with 
11.... Castles. 

(B) The strongest continuation, 
and far superior to 12 Kt to Q Kt 
5 (?), the only variation given in 
the Handbuch. 

(C) Black had to guard against 
the loss of the K B, threatened 
after the exchange of the two pieces 
with Q to R3 ch. Besides the text 
move he has the continuation: 
Wis.is P to Kt 4 
13 Kt t. Kt Kt t, Kt 
13....P t. B, 14 Kt t. Q, &c., 
loses at least the exchange. 

14 Bt Kt Kt B 

15 QtoR3ch K to K sy 
Orl15....K to Q sq, 16 BtoQ3, 
Q to Kt 3, 17 Kt to Kt 5, &e. 

16Qt.B PtB 
17 Qt. BP Q to Kt 3 
18 QtoQe 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

54 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

My own continuation ; after 18 Q t. 
P, B to R. 3, White cannot get any 
equivalent for the lost exchange. 

ee Qt.Q 
19 Pt.Q BtoR3 
20 K RtoK sqch K to Bsq 

If20....K to Q sq, then 21 Kt 

to Kt 5. 

21 R to K 7, with a fine attack. 
(D) If 13....Pto Kt 4, White 

gets a winning attack—originally 

played by J. Dufresne of Berlin— 

with: 

14PtK6(!) BPtP 
15 Bt. Kt PtB 

16 Kt to K 5 QtoK 5 
17 Q to Kt3 P to Kt 3 

If 17....Rto Kt sq, then 18Q 
to Kt 5, P to Kt 5,19 Q R to Q sq, 
@ B moves, 20 R to Q 7. 

18 Q to Kt 5 P to Kt 5 

19 Qto BG 

If 19Q BK to Q sq, Black escapes 
by 19... Castles. 

Lb Ree 

20 Q to Kt 7 

21 Q Rto Q sq (') 
Threatening mate in two moves. 
ee QtoR5 
22 Kt t. B P, 
and White comes out at least with 

the exchange ahead, ef. Chess- 
Monthly, Vol. IL, p. 278, 

(E) If 18.... Kt t. R, White 
gets an overwhelming attack with 
19 Bt. P ch and 20 Bt. Kt. 

(PF) Tf 19 ......QP & B, thes 
20 Kt to Kt 7 ch, K to B sq (best), 
21 Q to B 3, B to Kt 2 [21....B 
to R 3,22 R to Q 7], 22 Qto B6 
(threatening 283 Kt t. P ch), K to 
Kt sq, 23 K R to Q sq. 

(G) If 20..., Kto B 2orBsq, 
White forces the game with 21 Q 
to B3ch, K to Kt sq [21....K 
t. Kt, 22 Q to B 6 ch, K to Kt sq, 

R to B sq 
rtB 

23 R to B 4], 22 Q to B6, followed 
by 23 Kt to K 8 or 23 R toK B4 
ace—If 20....K to K 2, then 
21 Q to Kt 3. 

(H) Going in for brilliancy and 
neglecting the simple win with : 
22 Kt to Kt 5 R to B sq 
23 Ktt. P RtoB2 
24 Q to R38, &c., or 24 Kt to Kt 
5, and 25 R to R 4. 

(I) The sacrifice of the Rook is 
not absolutely unsound—cf. note 
(K)—but I had a foreed win with 
23 K R to Q sq, either R to Q sq, 
24 Q to K R 3. 

(J) Mr. Mortimer conducts the 
game from this point in an unex- 
ceptionable style. The text move 
provides Black with fair prospects 
to save the day. 

(K) Weak: I could still come 
out with the exchange ahead by 
continuing with : 

26 R to Q sq K to Kt 2 
27 Bt. R Rt B 
28 P to K7 Q to Kt 4 

If 28.... Bto Kt 4, then 29 Q to 
B8. 

29 PtoR3 
30 QtoBée 
31 Kt to K 6, and 
32 R or Kt to Q 8 ace, 

(L) I overlooked Black’s crush- 
ing reply ; the game would be about 
even after 20 Kt to Q 5, Q to Q 3, 
30 Kt. to K 3, &. 

(M) Absolutely decisive, for, of 
course, with three Pawns against 
one on the Queen's side and the 
attack, Black must win. 

(N) There were better moves, 
but none could save the game 
against best play. If 30 Ktt. P, 
Black wins at once with 30....R 
to K B 4. 

Q to K sy 
Pt Bs 

_ > 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

SECTION II. 

STEINITZ’S GAMES. 

THE NOTES IN THIS SECTION ARE BY W. STEINITZ, 

NOTES MARKED WITH SMALL LETTERS ARE BY THE EDITOR. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Original from 

Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

57 

STEINITZ’S GAMES. 

— 

CMO OnouUhOIe 
RHORDRADTON: 
Sor st esss ns 
LOF RIL RHORS A 

e oe 

all oul 
— 
~~ 

12 Kt t. 

| a 
OF 
pa 

rot ee RSSece 

HOROROURE oS Ohare 

wie ag Ninn 
4 

Ane 
DP 

RS 

— 

Ferssrssssssss 
imo & 

Goh -I BaD De Ra-B--ha-E-Ma-E La Da-f--1 cf h-) af he 
ROU or Ter WO 

SESSSRESRSSSBESRELSBES 

_ 
c 

= 
cr 

Game 83, played on the 26th of April. 
STEINITZ GAMBIT. 

KttoK B38 

mir 
oer =< 

peat get y 

y=) Le =) 

ped es 

co 
a 
a 

co 

rssssos 
NORWOOH 
A eS Wao 

ct ste & 
WD 
Suk 
== 

PRU RRR 
& 

fr} 

oo 

i =a 

S 
a 

White. Black. 
41 KtoB2 Rto R7 ch 
42 K to Kt 3 PtwK6 
43 RtoK?7 K toQ4 
44 P to Kt 6 R to R 8(N) 
45 K to Kt 2 Rto R7 ch 
46 KtoR3 RtoR8 
47 Pto Kt7 KR to K Kt 8 
48 RtoBs8 Kt to K 5 
49 PtoKt8Qch Rt.Q 
50 Rt. R P to B4(0) 
51 Rto Q8ch Kt toQ3 
52 Rt. P Resigns 

(A) The main object of this 
gambit is to make the K available 
for both wings in the ending. 
There is hardly any real danger for 
White in the presont position, and 
he ought to obtain some advantage 
in consequence of his K being in 
the centre, if he succeeds in ex- 
changing Queens, as was the caso 
on the first occasion, when this 
gambit was adopted by Steinitz 
against Neumann in the Dundee 
Tournament of 1867, 

(B) The identical position oc- 
curred between Steinitz and Paul. 
sen at Baden in 1870. The latter, 
however, played here Q to R 4, 
whereupon White answered B to 
K 2, 

(C) Taking with the P is, I be- 
lieve, stronger. If Black answers 
P to K B 4 the White B would 
attack the Q at Kt 3, followed by 
K to K 2, if Black checks at R 3 
or Kt 4. The White centre is then 
fortified, and the attack may be 
strengthened by b to L 2, 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

5B LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(D) A good move, which requires 
to be carefully dealt with. 

(E) Pt. Pmight have led to the 
following continuation : 

10 .a06 ig Rs 

11 Ktt. P R to K sq 
12 Pt. Kt PtoQ4 
1I3PwoKKt3s QwBbs 

' If Q to Q sq, White replies R to 
Q sq, and if 13 .... BtoB 4 ch, 
14 K to Q2, Pt. Kt, 15 Q to Kt 
3, Q to Q sq ch, 16 re for Sg 
to Kt 3 (best), 17 R to Q sq, &e. 

14 QtoKt4ch K to Ktsq 
15 Bt. P ch K to R sq 
16 Pt. P ch K t. P 

17 BtoK B4, 

with a P ahead, and an excellent 
game. 

(F) An error which costs the 
exchange. Kt to K B 3 was the 
proper defence, and would have 
given Black a good game, ¢.g.# 

44 33 KttoK B3 
12 PtoKKt3 QtoR4 
13 Qt.Q 

There is nothing better, for if Q to 
B 2 Black would protect the R P 
with the K, making room for Kt to 
Q B sq if necessary, White’s K P 
or ()’s centre P would then remain 
weak. 

ph Kt t. Q 

14 Bo R38 Kt t. B, 
followed by P to K Kt 3, &e. 

(G) Nothing better. If either 
Kt t. P White answers P to K 
Kt 3. 

(H) K to Q sq would have af- 
forded a surer way of winning, e.g. : 
23 K to Q sq B to R3 (best) 
If Kt to B 4 instead, White 
exchanges the B, followed accord- 
ingly by R to B 8 ch or Bt. Kt, 
winning the P in either case. 

24 RtoB7 Kt to B4 
He cannot afford to lose the R P, 
25 Rt. RK Kt. RK 

26 Bt. Kt PtB 

If Kt. Kt instead, White exchanges 
the other Kt, checking, followed by 
R to K 7. 

27 Rt. P Kt to K 6 ch 

28 K to K 2 Kt t. B Por 
Kt P 

29 KttoB5ch KtoB3(best) 

30 Kt toQ Kt 3 

or Q 3, according to Black’s pre- 
vious 29th move, and in each case 
the loss of a piece is threatened 
accordingly by K to Q3 or K to 
B 2, and White has gained time 
for the winning move R to K 7. 

(1) Premature perhaps, and cer- 
tainly not as strong as R to Q R sy, 
which would have deprived Black 
of all prospect of opening any im- 
portant file for his R, and at the 
same time threatened R to B 8, 
followed accordingly by R toQ R 
8orRto K R8, 

(J) A very fine move, which, in 
conjunction with his next move, 
affords Black a strong counter- 
attack. 

(K) If K to Q 2 Black could 
answer Rto K Kt 4, which he could 
not well do before on account of 
the reply K to B 4, 

(L) Injudicious. He ought to 
have taken the B P at onee, which 
would have given him fair drawi 
chances. It would have sey the | 
the difference that White, in order 
to win the Kt P, must have placed 
his R in front of hisown P at Kt 6, 
which would have ultimately cost 
him at least one important move 
with that Rook. 

(M) If 39 .... R to BG ch, 40 
K to B4, Rto B 6 ch (or 40.... 
Pto K 6,41 Rto K 7), 41 K to 
Kt 5, and should win. 

(N) OF course if Kt to K 5 ch 
White takes the Kt with the R, 
followed by P to Kt 7, winning 
easily, since Black’s K P can after- 
wards be stopped by R to K 6 ch. 

(O) The check of the R at Q 8 
would also be the winning answer 
against P to K 7, 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’S GAMES. 59 

Game 34, played on the 27th of April. 
STEINITZ GAMBIT. 

White. Black. 

W. Svernirz. B. Exouisen. 
1PtoK4 P to K 4 

2 Ktt.QB3 KttoQB3 
3PtoB4 Pt. P 
4PtoQ4 QtoR 5 ch 
5 K to K 2 PtoQ4 
6PtP Q to K2ch(A) 
7KtoB2(B) QtoR5ch 
8PtoKt3(C) Pt. Pch 
9KtoKt2(D) BtoQ3(!)(E) 
10 Pt. Kt(?) (F) Pt. RP [ch 
11 QteoB38(G) Pt. Kt queens 
12 Kt.Q Q t. P ch 
13 BtoK 8 QwB3 
14 QtoK2(H) Kt to K 2 (1) 
15 B to Kt 2 PtP 
16 Kt to K 4 Q to Kt 3 
17 Pto B 4(J) Bto Kt 5 
18 QtoK B2 Castles K R 
19 RtoKsq(K) KttoB4 
20 Kt t. B (DL) Ktt. B (1) (M) 
21 Rt. Kt Qt. Kt 
22 QtoR4 PtoK R4 
23 Rto K Kt3 K Rto K sy 
24 Rt. B (N) Q to Q8ch 
25 KtoR2 Qt. R 
26 Qt. Q Pt. Q 
27 K to Kt 3 QRtoQsy 
28 Bt. P RtoK?7 
29 P to Kt 4 Et. P 
30 R to K sq R to Q 6 ch 
31 KtoR4(0O) Pto Kt 3 (P) 
32 RtoK 7 P to Kt 6 
53 R to K sq Rte Q 5ch 
34 K t. P Rt. P 

Resigns 

(A) This move was, I believe, 
first. suggested by Mr. MacDonnell, 
and introduced into practice by 
Captain Mackenzie against myself 
in our series of games at New York. 
Its object is to draw against the 
first move by perpetual check. 

(B) The only move, excepting K 
to B 3, in which case Black would 
also reply Qto R 5. If K to Q2 

Black obviously mates at once at K 
6, and K to Q 8 is also disastrous, 
owing to B to B 4 ch. 

(C) White can in no other way 
escape the draw, for if K to K 2 
the Q would again check at K 2. 

(D) If Pt. P Black might simply 
reply Q t.Q P ch, remaining with 
a P ahead. Q t. R would, how- 
ever, be dangerous on account of 
B to Kt 2, followed by P t. Kt. 
White’s position would then be 
worth the sacrifice of the exchange, 
owing to Black’s Q being quite out 
of play. 

(E) A very fine move. 

i Much inferior to Q to K sq 
eh. 

(G) It is not at all certain that 
White’s game was indefensible if 
he had tried to save the piece by 
K Kt to K 2, €.g.¢ 

11 K Ktto K 2 BtoR6ch 
12 KtoB3 Castles 
13 Q to K sq Q to Kt 5 ch 

Of course he dare not take the Q, 
or B t. B ch would win. 

14 KtoK 3 Kt toB3 
If R to K sq ch, White replies K to 
Q 2. 

15 Q to B2, &e. 

(H) Very weak. He could still 
maintain some attack by Q to K 4 
ch, e.g.2 

14 Q to K 4 ch QtoK 2 
15 Bto Kt 2 P toQ Kt3 
(best), 

for if Q t. Q White retakes with 
the Kt, and should then Black 
advance the Q Kt P, White wins 
by Kt t. Bch and P to B 7. 

16 BtoQ4 PtoB3 

17 Rt, P 

and though Black is a Pahead and 

| from 
VERSITY 

if 

PRINCETON UNE 

Go LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

his Pawns on the K side are very 
strong, White has certainly a more 
defensible game than in actual 
play. 

(I) The full effect of this ex- 
cellent move had been overlooked 
by White, who had speculated on 
replying P t. P, followed by Q to Kt 
5 ch, in which ease, however, Black 
could interpose the B at Q B 3. 

(J) Qto B2 was much better. It 
was, however, futile to attempt an 
attack by Kt to Kt 5, for Black 
could well answer P tou K R 3, and 
if White then attempted B to K B 
3, Black would simply win a piece 
by K Bto QB4. 

(K) If B t. P Black would win 
at least two minor pieces for the R 
by Rt. B, followed by B to B 6; 
and if Kt t. B first, it became also 
dangerous to capture the P after- 
wards, as the B could be shut out 
by P to B4. 

{L) Again B t. P would have 
accelerated the loss, e.g. : 

(If 22 Kt to B 2, B to B 6) 
eee Kt to Q 5, 
with a fine attack. 

(M) Excellent play, as White 
cannot well allow his B to be ex- 
changed, which would seriously 
compromise the position of his K. 

(N) An oversight which costs 
the exchange, but the game was 
not to be saved anyhow. 

(QO) If he took the P the game 
might have proceeded thus ; 

3 R to Q 5 ch 

32 K to Kt 5 (best) Rt. P 

33 BtoQé R fr.R 7 toQ 
B7 

34 Rto K 8 ch KtoR2 

35 Bt. P R to Kt 7 ch, 

and wins in a few moves. 

(P) By thus cautiously providing 
an outlet for his K on a Black sy 
all hope of the adversary to gain 
one of the Rooks with a check is 
cut off. 

Game 35, played on the 30th of April. 
STEINITZ GAMBIT. 

20 Bt. P Rt. B 
21 Qt.R Btw K 4 
22 K to B sq 
White. Black. 

W. Srareitz. M. Tcniconis. 
1PtwK4 PtoKk 4 

2 KttoQB3 Kt toQB3 
3 PtoB4 PtP 
4PwQ4 Qto RS ch 
5 KtoK 2 P to Q 4 

6 Pt. P Q to K 2ch 
7 KtoB2 QtoR 5 ch 
8 Pto K Kt3 Pt. P 

9 K to Kt 2 Bto Q? 
10 Qto K sy ch (A) Q KttokK2(B) 
11 Pt. P Qt.QP 
12RtoR4(C) QtoB3 
13 Ki to 4 Q to Kt 3 

White. Black. 
14 BtoQ3 BtoB4 
15 Ktt. Beh(D) Pt. Kt 
16 B to Kt 5 ch K to B sy (E) 
17 PtoBs KttoK B38 
18 Kt to B3 B to Kt 5 (F) 
19 Kt to Q4 Kt to B4 
20 Kt t. Kt Q t. Kt 
21 Btob4 P to Kt 4 (!) 
22 Bt. P eb K to Kt 2 
23 Rt. B(Q) Ktt. R 
24 Q to B3ch(H) PtoB3 
25 Rto K B sy Q to K 5ch 
26 K to Kt sq QtoK 7 
27 RwBs KRtoKsq(!X1) 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINIT2Z’s 

White. Black. 
23 Bt. R Rt. B 
29 BtoBS Q to R7 ch 
30 K to Bsq R to K7 (J) 
Resigns. (a) 

(A) The position is identical with 
that of the game between Steinitz 
and Englisch, and the observations 
made about the latter apply up to 
this point, where White adopts the 
correct move in the text in lieu of 
the faulty P t. Kt. 

(B) Some of the competitors in 
the Tournament afterwards sug- 
gested Q to K 2 at this point. As 
will be remembered, Messrs. Win- 
awer and Rosenthal subsequently 
gave up a game of the same opening 
as a draw, the former allowing the 

tual check without interposi 

the P at Kt 3 on the So more 
Herr Winawer stated to me that he 
was afraid of the above-mentioned 
move at the point now arrived at. 
But subsequent examination, much 
supported by some trials in off- 
hand games between Mr. R. Steel of 
Calcutta and Mr. Sellman, proved 
that this defence is not satisfactory. 
The following is a likely continua. 
tion : 

| QtoK2 
1lBtoK Kt5 PtB8 
(or 11..... Qt. Q, 12Rt. Qeh, 

Q Kt to K 2, 13 P t. P, followed 
mostly by Kt to K 4, &.) 

12 Pt. Kt Pt. B 

13 B to Q Kt PtoQ Kt 3 
14 Kt toQi Qt. Q 

15 Rt. Q ch KtoBsq (best); 

if Kt interposes the R may take off, 

followed by Kt t. P ch. 

16 Pt. P, with the superior game. 
(C) By no means as good as 

K Kt to B 3, pointed out by Mr. 

Steel, who also suggests the follow- 

ing continuation in case Black then 

retreats the Q to Q Kt 2: 

12 Kt to B3 Q to Kt 3 

13 Bto K 3 Ot. P 

GAMES, 61 
14 BtoQ3 BtoQ Kt 5 
15 BtoQ4 P to K B3 
16 RB to Kt sq Bt. Kt 

17 Bt.B Qt. P 

18 RB to Kt5, witha strong attack. 

(D) Very weak. K Kt to B 3 
was clearly the proper move, when 
the game might have gone on thus: 
15 K KttoB38 Castles 
(or 15 .... KttoK B3, 16 Ktt. 
Kt ch, Q t. Kt, 17 Bto K Kt 5,Q 
to Kt 3, 18 Bt. Kt, Bt. B, 19B 
t. B, Qt. B, 20 Rto K 4, with an 
excellent game.) 

16 PtoB4 Bt. Kt 
17 Bt. B Pto B4 
18 Bt Q3 KttoK B3 

19 Kt to K 5, with a strong attack. 

(E) Well played. Had the Bishop 
interposed he would have been sub- 
jected to a powerful attack, thus : 

AG se BtoQ2 
17 Bt. Beh Kt. B 
18 Q to Kt4 Qt. B Pech 

19 B to Q 2, &c. 

(F) B to K 5 was, I believe, 
stronger, for he threatened then Kt 
to K B 4, followed accordingly 
either by Kt to Q 5 or Pto K R 4, 
as well as to get rid of White’s Q 
centre P by P to Q BR 3, followed 
by P to Q Kt 4. 

(G) Compulsory. If R to R 2 
ie game might have proceeded 
us ; 

23 RtoR2 PtoQR3 
24 Bto R 4 P to Kt 4 
25 B to Q sq (best); if P t. P the 
answer Qt. Q P ch wins. (Or 25 
B to Kt 3, RB to K sq, 26QtoK 
B sq (best), Q to K 5 ch, 27 K to 
Kt sq, Q to K 6 ch, 28 Q toB2 
a followed by Kt to 
5. 

BO) 536452 R to K sq 

26 Q to K B sq (best); if Q to B3 
Black wins by Q to K 5 ch, followed 
accordingly by Q to K 8 ch; or, 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

62 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

should the K move to B sq, by B 
t. Band Q to B 6 ch. 

ee Q to K 5 ch 
27 BtoB3 B t. B ch, fol- 
lowed by Q t. B P. 

(H) An extraordinary — error. 
White had still a game good 
enough for at least a draw by Q to 
K 2, e.g.: 

24 QtoK2 PtoKR4 
25 RtoK Bsq RtoK sy 
(Or 25 .... Q to Kt 3, 26 P to 

B 5, K BR to Q sq, otherwise White 
obtains an excellent game by B to 
B 7, 27 Bto Q 3, R to K sq; if 
Q to R 3, White wins by Q to K 7, 
23QtR, Rt. Q, 29 Bt. Q, Kt 
to K 6 ch, 30 K to B 2, Kt t. R, 
31 Bt. RP, with a fine game.) 

26 Bt. R Rt. B 

27 BR t.Q (not Q t. R, in which 
case Black would win by Q to B7 
ch, followed by Kt to R 7 ch and 
Kt t. R ch.) 

27 sone R t. Q eh 

28 K to B 3 (best), and now Black 
has nothing better than to draw by 
checking backwards and forwards 

at K 6 and K 7. 

(1) Excellent play. Black takes 
the fullest advantage of his supe- 
rior position. 

(J) Black had here a mate in two 
by Q to R 8 ch and Q to R 6 mate. 

(a) The result of these two games 
at his own opening severely handi- 
capped Mr. Steinitz, and had a 
most prejudicial effect on his posi- 
tion throughout the Tournament. 
Whether the gambit be, or be not, 
theoretically sound, the danger in 
endeavouring to avoid the per- 
petual check on the 8th move was 
so great practically, that even Mr, 
Steinitz, who is so thoroughly ac- 
quainted with all its intricacies, did 
not again venture to adopt it, and 
it will probably never be played 
again in important contests, or only 
by an inferior player, content to 
accept the draw which the second 
player ean force. 

Game 36, played on the Ist of May. 
QUEEN’S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White. Black. 
W. Srxrnitz, J. Montrwer. 
1PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
2PtoQB4 PtoK 3 
38 KttoQB3 B to Kt 5 (A) 
4PtoK3 Kt toK B3 
5 BtoQ3 Castles 
6 Ktto K B38 P t. P (B) 
7 Bt. BP Kt to K 5 (C) 
8 Qto B2 Bt. Kt ch 
9 P't..B Kt toQ3 
10 BtoQ3 PtoK B4(D) 
11 Castles Kt toQ2 
12 BtoR3 Kt to B3 
13 Kt to K 5 R to K sq 
14 PtoK B38 Kt to Q 4 

White. Black. 
15 QRto K sq Kt to B 2 (EB) 
16 Ktt. Kt K t. Kt 
17 PtoK 4 Kt to BS 
18 BtoB 4 Q to B 3 (F) 
19 Pt. P Pto K Kt3 
20 RtoK 5 P to B 3 (G) 
21 Bto B sq KttoQ4 
22 Bto K Kt5(!) Q to Kt2 (H) 
2 Pt.KtPch PtP 
24 K Rto K sy B to Q2 
25 K Rto K 4 P to Kt 4 
26 Bto Q 3 (I) PtoR4 
27 Rto Kt 4 R to K Kt sq 
28 PtKR4 PteQB4 
29 Rt. Kt (J) Pt R 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINIT2’3 GAMES. C3 

White. Black. 
30 Rto B4ch B to B 4(K) 
31 Bt. B(L) Rfr. Kt.to K sq 
32 Bt. P ch K to Kt sq 
33 RtoB7 Qt. R 
34 Bt. Q ch Kt. B 
35 Q to B 5 ch K to Kt 2 
36 Q to B 6 ch (M) K to Kt sq 
37 BtoR 6” Resigns (N) 

(A) Not a good move. Its main 
object is evidently to double W hite’s 
QBP, which, if anything, is, in the 
present position, to the advantage 
of White on account of Black's 
Q P being already advanced to 
the 4th. This will enable White 
to exchange the front B P at, his 
own convenience, and in the mean- 
while his centre, in combination 
with two Bishops, remains strong. 

(B) P toQ B 4 is much prefer- 
able. White cannot well take that 
P on account of B t. Kt ch, followed 
by Q to R 4. 

(C) Again P to Q B 4 was pre- 
ferable, 

(D) He stops the advance of the 
adverse K P at the cost of weaken- 
ing his own. On the whole P to 
K BR 3 was safer. 

(E) Black has the much inferior 
game; but this makes matters 
worse. P to Q Kt 4 was probably 
his best defence. 

(Ff) A Pawn was lost at least. 
Ifls.... KtoKt3,19B to B sq, 
Kt to R 4 (or 19.... Q to Q 3, 
20 P to K 5,Q to B 3, 21 Qto 
Kt 3 threatening B to Q Kt 5 and 

(G) Evidently if Pt. P, Rt. BP 
and wins. 

(H) Of course if Q t. B, the reply 
Pt. K P ch wins easily. 

(1) B t. Kt would probably have 
won quicker, e.g. : 

26 Bt. Kt KPt.B 

27 Rt. B4ch K to Kt sq 
If B interposes, White takes it off 
with the R. from K 5, followed after 
Q t. P ch by R to Kt 4, &e. 

28 Bto BG QtoR2 

(or 28....Qto R 3, 29 R to Kt 
5, K to R 2, 30R t. P, followed 
by R to R 4 ch, or accordingly R 
to Kt 7 double ch). 
29 Rto Kt 5 

30 B to K 5 dis ch, 
followed accordingly by P to K Kt 4 
or Rt. P. 

(J) The game is forced from this 
point. 

(K) If K moves, Q to K 2 ch 
mates in two moves. 

(L) Obviously if he took the B 
mate followed in three moves. 

(M) Not as precise as B to BG 
ch, which led to a direct mate, 
thus: 

36 B to B 6 ch K toB2 

37 BtoK 5disch KtoK 2 

38 Q to B6 ch, 

followed by Q to Q 6 ch and mates 
next move. 

(N) R to R 2 seems his best 

K to B2 

wins), 20 P to K 5, followed by P defence, and then Q to Kt 6 ch 
to K Kt 4, &e. wins a Rook. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

64 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Game 37, played on the 3rd of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White Black. White. Black. 
J. Masoy, W. Sreryirz. 47 Rt. BP Pt Qé 

1PtK4 PtoKk4 48 RtoK B7ch KtoK6 

2 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 49 B to Q sq Rt. P 

3 Bto Kt PtoQR3 50 K to Kt2 K toQ7 

4 5 tu R 4 K KttoK2(A) Resigus. 

5 PtoQ4 Pt.P P 

6 Kt eS Kt t. Kt (A) This defence, first intro- 
8 Bte Kt3 P to. Q Tournament of 1882, has since been 

9 PtoQB3(B) Bto K3(C) sufficiently tested against several 
10 BtoB 2 KttoB3 excellent players in America. On 
11 QtwK8 Bto K 2 the. whole I consider it quite as 
122PtoKB4 Castles satisfactory as any of the accepted 
13 Castles PtoQ4(D) _- beok forms. 
14 Rto Q sq R to K sy (B) White has to guard against 
15 P to K 5 (?)(E) P to Kt3 the loss of a piece by PtoQ B4 
16 PtoQKt3(F) PtoB3 and P to B 5, 
17 Qto Kt3 Pt. P 
18 PtoB5(?) (@) BtoRS which? ood ic berintic ince 
19 Q to Kt 4 B to B sq Tournament, and which left the 
20 Pto Kt4(H) K to Rsv (1) va? % 
31 PtoR 4 PERP Queen's P weak. 
92 Bt. P BLP (D) An error, which ought to 
23 QtoK2 Qt0Q3 have cost 1 valuable P, R to K sq 
24 Kt to R3 Qtok3 was the proper move. If White 
26 Bto Kt 2 K to R2 pas ag ee 
27 Qt. Q2 K R to Q sq (E) Feeble. He could safely 
28 Kt to B2 Kt to K 2 advance P to B 5, followed by R t. 
29 QtoK 3 BtoK 5 P, and Black had then hardly suf- 
30 RtoK B sq Kt toB4 ficient compensation for the P lost. 
31 QwWBS5 Q to Q 3 (J) (F) White keeps his pi 

: : pieces in- 
a Roe ; M t. Q active at home, Q to B 2, with the 

é toQs— object of making room for the de- 
5 s be ars “pee B38 velopment of his B, was superior. 
26 Pt. P KttoR3 (G) Unsound. White had evi- 
87 RLR BtR dently overlooked Black’s reply. 
38 RtoK sq (K) Bt.Kt(L) (H) If: 
39 Bt. B Kt t. P 20 Bto K 4 Kt toQ5 
40 B to B sq Kt to R3(M) 21 Pt. Kt Pt. B 
eee EbOk 92 PtP B t. P, 

0 58q t . . . 

43 RLP Fin Tia “a with a winning game. 
44 R to R 4(0) K to BS (I) Not so strong as P to K 5. 
45 Rto R6 BtoR5 (J) Q to Kt 3 was superior. If 
46 RtoBO(P) PtoK5 Whitethen exchanged, Black gained 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’8 GAMES, 65 

an additional open file for his Rooks 
at Q B sq. 
(K) White defends himself splen- 

didly against the adverse superior 
force. 

(L) Compulsory, for if the B 
removes White replies P to K Kt 5. 
Though Black gains a P thereby 
his winning is by no means clearly 
established on account of the oppo- 
site two Bishops and the weakness 
of his Rook's P. 

(M) There is no other way of 
bringing this Kt into play without 
loss. 

(N) He remains with Bishops of 
opposite colours and obtains free- 
dom for attacking theQRP. If 
R to K B sq Black would give up 
one P by Kt to B 4 and easily win 
afterwards with the two passed 
Pawns after K to Kt3. BtoK 4 
was, however, better, and might 
have led to the following continua- 
tion : 

Best, apparently. 45 R to Q R sq, 
with a somewhat better defensive 
prospect than in actual play. 

(O) By this retreat he allows 
Black to gain an important move 
with his K. It was better to attack 
the B P, for only by very careful 
play could Black then retain suffi- 
cient advantage, ¢.g. ; 

44 R to BG Rt. P 
45 Rt. P R to Kt 7 
The only proper move. 

46 BtoK 4 Rto K7 

Again the only move, If46....K 
to B 5,47 Bt. P, P to K 5,48 Rto 
K B 7, 48 K to K 4, 49 Bt. P, &e. 

47 BtoQ3 RtoK 6 
48 Bto R 6 PtoK5 
49 Bto Kt7 K to B 4 
50 RtoQ7 RtoQB6 
51 PtoBé B to K 4, 

and wins, but not without some 
further trouble. 

(P) Too late now. Black’s K 

41 BtoK 4 R to Q Kt sq has crossed in support of his Pawns, 
42 BtoQ2 Kt to B 2 and the adverse B is also better 
48 Bt Qs K to Kt 2 posted than before. Black now 
44RtoK Bsq RtoK Baq wins without difficulty, 
Game 38, played on the 4th of May, 
RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
G. H. Mackenziz. Wz. Sreixitz. 13 PtoQB3 Ktt. B 
1PtK4 Ptok 4 14 Pt. Kt Q to Kt 4 (E) 
2 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 15 QtoB3 BtoQ2 
3 B to Q Kt 5 PtoK Kt3(A) 16 BtoB4 QR to K sq 
4PtQ4 Pt. P , 17 QR to K sq(F) Bto K 4(?)(G) 
5 Ktt. P B to K Kt2 18 KttoK 2(?)(H) Rto K 2 
6 BtoK 3 Kt to K B3 19 Ktto B4 K to Kt 2 
7 KttoQB3 Castles 20 RtoQsq(I) BtoBsg 
8 Castles (B) Kt to K 2 21 Rte KB2 BtoQB2 
9 PtoK R3(C) PtoQB3 22 K to Req QtoK 4 
10 BtoQ3 PtoQ4 23 Rto K sq BtoK B4 
11 Pt. P(D) Q kt t.P 24 KX to Kt sq K RtoK sq (J) 
12 Kt t. Kt Kt t, Kt 25 to K Kt 4 BtwK 5 

¥ 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

66 LONDON CHESS 

White. Black 

* 26 QtoQsq(K) RtoQ sq 
27 Qto K 2 Q RK to Q 2 
28 Qto B sy K to R sq 
29 PtoK R4(L) PtoK B4 
30 Pto Kt 5 RtoQ7 
31 QtoR3(M) RtR 

32 Kt. R QwQBe 
33 KttoK 6(N) Qt. B 

34 Kt t. R (O) Bt. Kt 

35 Q to K Kt 3 QtoQ4 
86 PtoQB4 Q to Q 2 

37 Q to K Sch K to Kt sq 
388 RtoK2(P) PtoKR3(!)(Q) 
39 KtoK sq(!)(R) Bto B2 
40 Q to Q4(8) B to Kt 6 ch 
1K toQ Qt. Qch 
42 Pt.Q Bt. P 

43 Pt. P B to Kt 4 ch 
44 KtoKsq(T) Bt. P 

45 K to B2 K to B2 
46 PtoQKt3 BtoB5(U) 
47 PtoQR4 PtoK Kt 4 
48 PtoK R5 Pto K Kt5 

Resigns 

(A) A defence first suggested, I 
believe, by Mr. Ranken in the 
Chess-Player’s Chronicle. 

(3) Here Kt t. Kt or Bt. Kt 
were preferable. The move in the 
text makes the position similar to 
a variation in the Three Knights’ 
game, with the difference in favour 
of the defence that White’s K B is 
not well posted at Kt 5 and will 
have to lose a move when attacked 
by the Q B P. 

(C) Awasted move. P to K B38 
was, I believe, White's best play 
now. 

(D) He had hardly anything 
better. If 11 Pto K 5, Kt toQ 
2,12 P to K 6 (best, for if P to K 
B 4, Black wins a piece by P to Q 
B 4), Kt to K 4, with an ex- 
cellent game. The Kt from Q 4 
could not well remove, since Black 
threatened to gain the Q Kt P 
ultimately after cxchanging the 
centre P, 

TOURNAMENT. 

(E) Q to K 2 was preferable. 

(F) It would have been dan- 
gerous tocapture the B P cheeking, 
for Black would remove the K, 
threatening R to K 2. 

(G) A grave error, which ought 
to have cost him dearly. R toK2 
was the correct play. 

(H) Fortunately for Black Cap- 
tain Mackenzie overlooks here that 
he could win thus: 

18 Bt. Pech K to Kt 2 or 
R sq 

19 Bt R Rt Q 

20 Ktt. R Q to K 2 

21 Bt B B to Kt 6 

22 R to Q sq, 

and White remains with three 
pieces, including two Rooks, for 
the Q. 

(I) Threatening to win by Rt. 
B, followed by Kt to K 6 ch. 

(J) P to K Kt 4 would not have 
been good, for White could then 
check with the Kt at R 5, followed 

* by P to K Kt 4, should the K pro- 

tect at Kt 3. 

(K) Loss of time. Q to K 2 at 
once was better. 

(L) This weakens the Pawns on 
the K side. B to K 2, with the 
object of opposing Bishops at B 3, 
was better. 

(M) This loses a piece. It was, 
however, difficult for White to find 
a satisfactory defence. If 31 P to 
R 5, Pt. P, 32 Ktt. P (or P to 
Kt 6, Q to B 3), Q to R 7 ch, 
and mates next move. Again R 
fr. K sq to K 2, with the object 
of moving the same R backwards 
and forwards, would not mend 
matters, e.g. : 

31 Rf. K sqtoK2 Bto Kt 3 

32 Rt R Rt. R 

33 Q to K sq(or Rt. R, Bt. P ch, 
followed accordingly by Q t. Kt, or 
Bt. Kt ch, winning) 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ATRINIT2'S 

83 nee R % P 
34 RtR Q t. Kt, and 
wins. 

(N) If 33 PtoR 5, Q t. B, 34 
Pt. P,R to Q 2, 35 Q to R6,B 
t. Kt, and wins; for mate in a few 
moves is threatened, commencing 
with R to Q 7 ch, and if White 
checks at B 8 and afterwards at 
B 6, Black will interpose the Q at 
Kt sq and Kt 2. 

(O) If 34 Kt t. B, R to Q 7 ch, 
35 K to Kt 3, R to Kt 7 ch, 36 K 
to B 4, Q to B2, 37 Kt to R 8, 
Q to K sq, threatening Q to Q 
Kt sq ch, 38 Kt to B 7, Q to K 2, 
and wins. 

(P) It was of no use to sacrifice 
the R at Q sq, for Black would 
take, and White had no more than 
two checks, as Black’s K would 

GAMES, 67 

become safe the second time at It 

(Q) The winning move. 

(R) A desperate attempt to turn 
the tables, and even to win, should 
Black take the P, by R to Q 2, fol- 
lowed accordingly by Q to K 6 ch, 
or Q to Kt 8. 

(S) If 40 Q to B 6, Bto Kt 6 ch, 
41 R to B2 (best), Bt. R ch, 42 K t. 
B, Q to Q 7 ch, 43 K to B sq (best), 
B to Q 6 ch, 44 K to Kt sq, Q to 
K 8 ch, 45 K to Kt 2, Bto K 5-ch, 
and mates in three moves. 

(T) Best, apparently, to be near 
the hostile Pawns, and also because 
if K to B 3 the Q P was liable to 
be pinned by the B and again 
attacked by the Q B P. 

(U) The march of Black's K Kt 
P becomes now irresistible. 

Game 39, played on the 7th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
A. B. Sxrpwoartn. W. Sreinitz, 
1PtQB4 P to K 4 (A) 
2PtoK3 P K Kt 3 (B) 
3 KttoQB3 B to Kt 2 
4 Bto K 2 (C) Kt to K 2 
5 PtoQ3(D) Castles 
6 KttoB3 PtoQ4 
7 Castles Q Kt to B3 
8 PtoK4(E) PtBP 
PRP Kt toQ5 
10 BtoK 3 PtoK R38 
ll QteoQ2 K to R2 
12 Q Rto Q sq Kt (K 2) B3 
13 Kt to Q5 KttoK 8 
14 BtoQ3 Kt (B38) Q5 
15 Kt t. Kt (F) Pt. Kt 
16 BtoB4 PtoQB3 
17 Kt to Kt 4 Kt t. B 
18 Qt. Kt Q to Kt 3 
19 PtoQR3(G@) PtoQR4 
20 KttoB2 Qt. P 
21 Rto Kt sq Q to B6 

White. 
22 K RtoQsq Bto K3 

23 PtoK5 QBLBP 
24 Ktt.P(H) BtB 
25 Rto Kt3 ( to B 4 (I) 
26 R(Kt3)t.B Bt. P 

27 Kt to Kt 3(!)(J) QtoQKt4(K) 
2QtKR4 PtRS . 

29 Kt to B sq BtoKt7(?)(L) 
30 Kt toK2 Q BR to K sq 
31 Kt to Kt 3 B to Kt 2 

32 Kt to K4 PtoK B4 

33 KttoKt5ch (M) K to Kt sq 

34 Kt to B3 P to Kt 4 
85 QtoKt3(N) PtB5 
36 Q to Kt 4 QtoK B4 
37 PtoK R38 Q t.Q 

38 Pt. Q BtoB3 
39 K to Bsy R to Q sq 
40 Rt. R Rt. 

41 R to Kt sq P to Kt 4 
42 K to K 2 K to B2 
43 Kt to Q2 BtoK2 

a 
inal Tron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

68 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 

4+ RtoQ Bsy RtoQs3s 
45 eS ae K to K 3 
3 

46 P to R to Qs 
47 KtoQsq(P) Pto Kt 5 (!) 
48 KtoB2 P to Kt 6 ch 
49 K to B83 BtoB3 

50 RtoK R sq R to Q 4 ch 
51 K to Kt4 Rt, Kt 

52 Kt. P Pto Kt 7 
53 K to Kt 3 PtoB4 
54 K to R2 PtoBs 

Resigns, 

(A) Not much favoured by book 
authorities or first-class practi- 
tioners. It was adopted here in 
order to continue it with an experi- 
ment on the next move. 

(B) The K fianchetto seems to 
be a fair resource in this position, 
as far as can be judged from the 
progress of the present game. 

(C) Probably with the object of 
reserving the K Kt for RK 3 square 
should Black advance P to K B 4. 
However Kt to K B3 at this point 
is, I believe, preferable. 

(D) Whereby White shows him- 
self content with at least a waiting 
if not a defensive game, as the ad- 
vance of his P to Q 4 seems to give 
him the only prospect of opening 
the position. No doubt this would 
have given Black’s K B a longer 
range, but then Black would have 
had to exchange Pawns for that 
Sealey and White’s Q B would 

ave escaped confinement. 

(E) A weak point is thus created 
at Q 4, whereon Black can settle 
one of his pieces, which can only 
be exchanged with disadvantage. 
Black gains time to form his posi- 
tion for ultimate action at his own 
leisure. 

(F) This loses a P. The better 
plan was to capture the Kt with 
the B, though even then Black re- 
tained a slight superiority of posi- 
tion, eg.: 15 Bt. Kt, P t. B, 16 P 

to K 5, PtoQ B3,17 Kt to B4, 
Kt t. kt, 18 Qt. Kt, Pto QB4, 
19 B to K 4, Bto K 3, with the 
better game. 

(G) He speculates on the some- 
what confined position of the oppo- 
nent’s Q should Black endeavour to 
guin the Q Kt P, but as will be seen 
the weakness of his Q side becomes 
irreparable, The following was a 
better way of abandoning the P; 
19 Q to Q 6, RitoQ sq (orlY.... 
P to QR4(?), 20 Kt toQ 5, Qt. 
P, 20 R to Kt sq, followed by Kt 
to B 7, or Ki to Kt 6), 20 PtoB5,R 
t.Q,21 Pt. Q, Pt. P, 2PtoQR3, 
and Black’s majority of Pawns is not. 
as strong on account of the doubled 
P. On the 20th move of this varia- 
tion Black has another apparently 
promising line of play, which, how- 
ever, seems to turn in favour of 
White, and this was an additional 
reason for adopting the proposed 
defence. For instance: 20... . 
QtoR 4, 21QwK7, RwQ2, 
22 Qto K 8, Qt. Kt, 28 P to K 5, 
Qt. BP, 24PtoK 6, RtoK 2, 
P t. P, with a fine attack. 

(H) White makes an ingenious 
defence, which gives him great 
hopes of prolonging the fight. 

(1) Not as good as Q to B 5, 
which would have saved time and 
trouble. White had then nothing 
better than to take the B with the 
R from Kt 3 (for if the other R 
took the answer was Bt. P), where- 
upou Black could advance P to Q 
B 4, which forced the exchange of 
Queens and the gain of a Pima 
more reduced position. 

(J) Again finely played. 

(K) Black would have had a 
troublesome game if he had ex- 
changed Queens, eg.: 27.... Bt. 
Q, 28 Kt t. Q, P to Kt 3, 29 Kt to 
Q 7, K BR to Q Bsgq (best), 30 P to 
Kt 3, Bto B2(or 30.... Bto Kt 
4,31 P to B 4, followed by R to K 
sq), 31 R to K sq, &e. 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINIT2Z’S GAMES. 69 

(L) Confining the Kt by Q to 
Kt 7 was much better play. 

(M) Ofcourse Kt to Q 6 would be 
fatal on account of the reply Qt. R. 

(N) Q to R 5 gave more chance 
of prolonging resistance. He had 
then nothing to fear from the reply 

P to Kt 5, in which case he would 
first move his R out of danger by 
R to Q7, threatening RB t. B ch, &e. 
(O) Black threatened R to K 3 
ch followed by B t. P. 
(P) After this White’s game be- 
comes hopeless. 

Gamo 40, played on the 10th of May. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White Black. 
Da. Noa. W. Srernirz. 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 4 
2KttoKB3 KttoQB3 
3 BtoB4 Bto B4 
4PtoQ3 PtoQ3 
5 PtoK R3(A) KttoB3 
6 Kt to Bs Q Kt to R4 
7 Bto Kt 3 Kt t. B 
8RPt. Kt Pto B38 
9 KttoQR4 B to Kt 5 ch 
10 B to Q 2 (B) Bt. Bch 
11 Qt. B Castles 
12 Qto Kt 5 PtokR3 
13 QtoR4 Q to R4ch 
14 Kto K 2 Qto B2 
15 PtoK Kt4 Kt toR 2 
16 KRto K Ktsq(C)P to B 3 
17 Qto Kt 3 Rto B2 
18 Kt to B3 Pty Q 4 
19 PtoK R4 P to () 5 (D) 
20 Q Ktto Ktsq Pto K Kt4 
21 Q Kt toQ2 Kt to B sq 
23 PtP RP t P 
23 R to R sq Kt to Kt 3 
24 QRtoK Keeq(E)QtoRs@ )(F) 
25 Ktto B4 jtoB4 
26 K to Q sq Big Kt4 
27 RtoR6 Rto K Kt 2 
28 Kt (B 4) toQ 2 PtoQR4 
29 R (Ktsq) to RsqB to K 3 
30 QtoR 3 ix to B2 (Q) 
31 Oto RS () Rto K Kts 
32 Ktt.Kt Peh(!\(H)P t. Kt 
33 Kt to B3 KtoK 
34 Kt t. Kt P Qt K2 
3o Pt. Bd K to Q2 

White. Black, 
36 Kt t. B Q t. Kt 
37 Qteo BS Rto B2 
38 RtoR7 R (Kt sq) to 
K Bsq 

39 R(Rsq) toRG RtR 

40 Rt. Reh K to Q3 

41 () to Kt 5 QtoB3 

42 QtoBd Qt Q (?) (CD 
43 K Pt. Q Kt to B5 
44 K to K sy Kt to Q 4 
45 K to Q 2 PtoR5 

46 Pt. P PtP 

47 Rto R6 ch K to Q 2 (J) 
48 Rto R 7 ch Kt to K 2 
49 RtoR6 Kt to B sq 
50 RtoK 6 RtoKs 

51 RtoK RG Kt to Q 

52 Rto R7 ch R to K 2 

53 RtoR8 Kt to K sq 
54 PtoKt5(K) KttoQ3 
55 PtoB6 R to K sq (L) 
56 Rto R7 ch to K 3 

57 RtoQB?7 K to B 4 (M) 
58 Rt. P(?)(N) KttoB2 
59 RtoR6 Kt t. P 

60 Rt. P Kt P 

6L PtoQB3 RtoK Rsq 
62 KtoB2 Kt t. P 

63 K to Kt 3 KtoB4 
64 P to B4(?)(O) KttoK8 
65 PtoB5d Kt t. P 

66 P to B 6 (?) Kt to B 4 ch 

(A) A tame sort of opening, like 
most forms of the Giuoco Pianis- 

PRINC ETO N UNI VERS sITY 

70 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

simo, which usually resolve them- 
selves soon into waiting and ma- 
neeuvring games. 

(B) Best, for if Kt to B 3, Black 
aulvances P to Q 4; and if P to B 
3, the Black B retires vid R 4, and 
the White Kt will be shut out 
from the game. 

(C) Not as good as bringing the 
other R to the same post. 

(D) Not well judged, for the 
blocking game is usually in favour 
of the Knights. B to K 3 was 
superior, 

(E) Loss of time. White could 
have gained an important move 
here by R to R 6. 

(F) Also useless; he should have 
pressed the attack by the advance 
of the Q Kt P and Q RP. 

(G) Best, for White threatened 
Rt. Kt, &e. 

(H) A bold sacrifice, which taxes 
to the utmost Black's defensive 
powers, though the latter is a piece 
ahead. 

(1) A gross error of judgment. 
Kt to K 2 instead would have forced 
White to exchange Queens without 
his having more than one passed 
Pawo—namely, on the K Kt file— 
where its eventual advance could 
not be sufficiently supported. 

(J) If 47....K to B4,48R 
to K 6, BR to Q Kt sq (or 48 
.-..-Rto K Req, 49 Rt. P), 

49 K to B sy, P to R 6, 50 Pt. P, 
Kt to B 6, 60 R t. P ch, K to 
Q 3, 61 KR to K sq, and White 
is safe with four Pawns ahead. 

(K) In Dr. Noa’s dashing style. 
Ri to K 6 was sufficient for drawing 
urposes; but Dr. Noa rightly 
acl; that by the play in the text 
he Lad some winning chances with- 
out much risk. 

(L) Best; in answer to R to B 2 
White could attack the R P at Q 
R 8, thereby also threatening P to 
Kt 6. 

(M) There was hardly anything 
better. If 57....Rto K Kt sq, 
58 R to K 7 ch, K to B 4, 59 P to 
B 7, Rto K Bsq, 60 Pto Kt6, Kt. 
P (or 60....K to B 3,61 R to Q 
B 7, &c.), 61 R to K 6 ch, &e. 

(N) Overlooking Black’s forcible 
reply. He could still draw thus: 
58 P to B7, R to K R sq (best), 
59 P to Kt 6, Kt. P, 60 Rt. P, R 
to R7ch, 61 K toQ sq, RtoR8 
ch, 62 K toQ 2. White would get 
the worst of it if he abandoned the 
support of the B P, and, on the 
other hand, Black has nothing 
better than to give perpetual check. 

(O) This loses more quickly, but 
the game was not to be saved. If 
64K toB 4,K to B5, 65 Pt. P, 
P t. P, 66 P to Kt 4, K to K 6, 67 
Pto Kt 5, R to Q Kt sq, and should 
win. 

_—_—o——— 

Game 41, played on the 11th of May. 
THREE KNIGHTS’. 

White. Black. 

J. HW. Buacksvernes. W. Sreiirz. 
1PtK4 Ptok4 
2K Ktto B3 Q Kt to B3 
3’ KttoB3 P to K Kt 3 
4PtoQ4 PtP 
& Ktt.P B to Kt 2 

White Black. 
6 Bto Kk 3 Kt to B3 
7 Btok2 Castles 
8 Castles Kt to K 2 (A) 
9 Bto B38 P to Q 3 (Bb) 
10 Q to Q2 Ki to Q2(#)(C) 
1l BwRG Kiwk4 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’S GAMES. 71 

12 Bt. B K t. B (D) 
13 BtoK 2 PtoK B3(E£) 
l4PtB4 Kt to B 2 (F) 
15 Q RB to Qsq P to B 3 (G) 
16 BtoB4 BtoQ2 

17 Bt. Kt Rt B 

18 PtoBS5 Kt to B sy 
19 PtoK5(H) BPtP 

20 KttoKéch Bt. Kt 

21 Pt. B R to K 2 (IT) 
22 Qto Kt QtoK sq(? (J) 
23 Rto ()3 (!) (K) Rt. P(L) 

24 RB to R3 (!) (M) sos 

25 Qto R6 ch K to Kt sc 
26 Rto B8 ch Resigns. 

(A) Better than R to K sq played 
at this point against Zukertort in 
this Tournament. 

(B) P to Q 4 is the proper move 
here to equalise the game at once. 

(C) The consequences prove this 
move as injudicious as it is clumsy 
in appearance. Kt to K square 
would have enabled Black to ad- 
vance P to K B 4 with good effect 
if White replied B to R 6. 

(D) Kt t. B ch was no more 
satisfactory, eg.: 12 ....Ktt. B 
ch, 13 Kt t. Kt, K t. B,14Q to Q 
4 ch, K to Kt sq (P to B 3 instead 
is also objectionable as White would 
answer Kt to R 4, or Kt to Q 2, 
followed by P to KB 4, with a 
strong attack), 15 Q to B 6, B to 
K 3 Gif Kt to B 3 White exchanges 
Queens, followed by Kt to Q 5), 16 
Kt to Q 4with an excellent attack, 
for should Black answer Kt to B 3 
White would exchange Queens and 
at least double the Q B P since the 
Kt cannot retake on account of the 
reply K Kt to Kt 5. 

(E) P to K B 4 was also dan- 
gerous,eg.: 13....P toK B4, 
14PtoB4, K Kt to B 3 (or 14 
.... Ktto B 2,15 B to B 4, and 
Black's game is fearfully hampered, 
for he dare not exchange Pawns on 
account of White's threatening Q 
to Q B 3 after retaking the P with 
the Kt), 15 Ktt. Kt, Kt t. Kt (best), 

16 KttoQ5,Pt.P,17 Qi BS 
ch, K to R 3, 18 Pto K Kt 4, and 
should win. 

(F) If K Kt to B 3 White may 
exchange, which would either gain 
time for the strong advance of P 
to B 5 or would cause Black to 
double his Q B P. 

(G) This weakens the Q P: B 
to Q 2 at once was certainly better. 

{H) The plan of which this is 
the initiation is ingenious, in us far 
as it is puzzling in actual play, but 
hardly aualytically as sound as‘ Q 
Kt to K 2 threatening Kt to K B 
4 as well as preparing the advance 
of P to QB 4, 

(1) Best. If21....RtoB4, 
22 P to K Kt 4, Q to Kt 4, 23 Q t. 
Q, Rt. Q, 24PtoK R3, PwQ 
4, 25 KttoK 4, Pt Kt,’ 26 R to 
B7ch, K to R3, 27Q RtoQ 7, 
and wins. 

(J) A fearful blunder, Kt to Kt 3 
would not alone have saved the 
game, but in all probability have 
been sufficient to win, ¢.4.: ; 
Kt to Kt 3, 28 Rto Q3, it Kt toK 
4 Black answers Kt to Q 4, 2 
to K sq, 24 Rt. P, Kt to B . 25K 
toQ7, Kt. R, 26 Pt. R, Qt. P, with 
a P ahead and a good game, for if 
White now attack the Q by R to Q 
sy Black may answer Q to K B 4, 

(K) A beautiful move, which car- 
ries the day by force. 

(L) P to K B 3 was the only 
hope, though useless against best 
play on the other side, e.g.: 23... . 
P to K R 3, 24 Q to B 6 ch, K to 
Kt sq (best) (if K to R 2 White 
answers Kt to K 4 threatening Kt 
to Kt 5 ch, followed accordingly by 
R to R 3 ch or Kt to B 7), 25 BR to 
Kt 3, RK to Kt 2 (best), if Rt. P, 
then follows R t. P ch, Q toB 8 ch 
and R to B 7 ch winning, 26 
KttoK 4, P toQ Kt 3 (or 26.... 
Pto Q4, 27 Kt to B 5, followed by 
Kt to Q7),27 KRto R3,PtoK R4 

ginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

72 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(or 27....PtoQ4,28 Rt. P, threat- 
ening Q to R 4), (or 27.... K to 
R 2, 28 Rt. P ch), 28 Q to K Kt 5, 
winning easily by Kt to B 6 ch, 
followed accordingly by R t. P ch, 
or Kt t. P dis. ch. 

(M) This powerful stroke leaves 
Black without resource. 

(N) If P to K R 4 the R would 
take the P, and if R to K 2 White 
would check at R 6, followed aecord- 
ingly by R to B 8 ch, or Ktto K 4, 
winning easily. The move in the 
text gives Mr. Blackburne an oppor- 
tunity of executing one of his bril- 
liant terminations, of which he 
promptly avails himself. 

s+ 

Game 42, played on the 14th of May. 

White. 

Black. 
W. Srainitz. H. E. Bren. 
1PtK4 PtokK4 
2 KttoQB3 Kt toQB3 
3 KttoB3 B to B 4 (A) 
4 Ktt.P Kt t. Kt (B) 
5 PtoQ4 B to Q3(C) 
6 Pt. Kt Bt P 
7 BtoQ3 (D) Kt to K 2 (E) 
8 Castles PwQB3 
9 QtR5 PwQ3(F) 
10 PtoB4 BtoQ5bch 
11 K to Rsq Pto K Kt3 
12 QtoK2 KtoQ2(?)(G) 
13 BtoB4 PtoK B4 
14 Rto Q sy Bt. Kt 
15 Pt B P t. P (oH) 
16 BtoR3 PtoQ4 
17 QtP PtoQ Kt 4(1) 
18 Be. QKtP()D)Pt. B 
19 Bt. Kt K to B 3 (K) 
20 Qto K 5 QtoQ2 
21 Qt. RB Qt. B 
22 Rto K aq QtcQ3 
23 RtoK 8 Q to Q2 
24 QR to K sq QtoQ B2 
25 Q to B 6 ch K to B 4 (L) 
26QRtoK6(!) BtR 
27 Rt. B Resigns. (M) 

(A) Not considered a good de- 
fence by the best authorities, though 
often tried by first-class players 
with various continuations. 

(B) B t. P ch has been proved 
to give White a strong superiority, 
chiefly on account of the following 

THREE KNIGHTS’, 

principal variation: 4....Bt.P 
ch, 5 Kt. B, Kt t. Kt, 6 P to Q 4, 
6 Q to B 3 ch, 7 K to Kt sq, Kt to 
Kt 5, 8 Q to Q 2, followed by P to 
K RB 3, with an excellent game. 

(C) Introduced by Anderssen, 
and certainly better than B t. P. 

(D) Better, I think, than the 
usual B to Q B 4. 

(E) The following is also a likely 
continuation: 7....B t. Kt ch, 
8 P t. B, Pt. Q 4,9 Castles, P 
t. P, 10 K to K sq, P to K B 
(or 10.... Ktto B3,11B 

5 

Kt 3,12 Rt. Pch, Pt. R,13Q 
K 5 ch, Q to K 2 (or 13.... 
to Q 2,14 Q B to K Kt 5), 14Q 
R, with a strong attack. 

(F) On the whole Q to R 4 was 
preferable, eg.: 9 ....Qt. R4, 
10 Kt to K 2 (or 10 B to Q 2, 
Bt. Kt, 11 Qt. Q, B t. Q, &.), 
10.... Kt to Kt 3,11 K to Raq, 
B to B 2, &. 

(G) In reality as dangerous as 
in appearance. 

(H) Orlsd....Q to R 4,16P 
t. P,Qt. K B P (best), 17 B to 
R3, Kt to Q 4,18 B t. Kt, P t. 
B, 19 Q to Kt 5 ch, &e. 

(I) R to K sq was deceptive in 
so far as it made White’s apparent 
intention of B t. P, followed by R 

inal fron 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

STEINITz’s GAMES. 73 

t. Kt or P unsound, for Black's K 
would ultimately retreat to Q to Kt 
sq, and in reply to the only check 
then on the board by Q to Q 6, 
Black’s Q could interpose at B 2. 
But White would, in that case, win 
by force, thus: 17....Rto K sq, 
18 Q to K 5, Q to B 2 (or 18 
...- Kt to B 4,19 Rt. P ch, and 
mates next move with B at Kt 5), 
19 Q to B 6, K toQ sq, 20 R to 
K sq, threatening B 
lowed by Q to B 8 
Q 2 (best), 21 QR to 
winning attack. 
(J) Better than B t. 

which case the game might have 
proceeded thus: 18 B t. Q P, 

ch, Q to 
Q sq, with a 

Kt t. B, 19 R t. Kt ch, P t. R, 
20 Qt. P ch, K to B 2, 21Qt. 
R, P to Q R 3, and White remains, 
for practical purposes, only one 
P ahead, with Bishops of opposite 
colours, on account of the doubled 
QBP. 

(K) No doubt the best defence 
at his disposal. 

(L) 1f25....QtoQ 3, 26 Rt. 
B ch, R t. R, 27 R to K 6, and 
if 25....K to Kt 2, 26 R (K sq) 
toK 7, B toQ 2,27 Rt. B and 
wins 

(M) P to Kt 5is the only defence, 
and then follows Q to Q 4 ch and 
Qt. Kt P mate. 

Gome 43, played on the 15th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black.. 
W. Srernirz. H, SELLMAN. 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 Q Kt to B3 K Kt to B3 
4 Bto K Kt 5 Bto K 2 
5 Bt. Kt Bt. B 
6 KttoB3 sb 7 goad 
7 Bto Kt 5 ch Pio h3(B) 
8 Bt Q3 P toB4(?)(C) 
9 Pt.QP K Pt. P 
10 BtoKtidch BtoQ2 
11 QtoK2ch K to B sq 
12 Castles, Q R PtoB5 
13 BtB Qt. B 
14 KttoK5 Q to K 3 
15 Pto K B4(?)(D) KttoR3(!)( E) 
16 QtoB3 Kt to B 2 (F) 
17 Pto K Kt 4 P to () Kt 4 
18 P to Kt 5 BtoK2 
19 Pto B5(?)(G) Bt. Pch 
20 K to Kt sq Qtr Qs 
21 QtoR5 Qto K 2 
2K Rto K sq PtoKR3 
23 Kitt. QBP QtoB3 
24 KttoK 5 K to Q sq 

Black. White. 
25 Kt to K 2 Kt to K sq 
26 Kt to Kt 3 K to Kt sq 
27 Rto K 2 Bto BS 
28 to B3 Bt, Kt (Kt 3) 
29 Pt. B QtoKté(?)( H) 
30 Kt to BG Rto Bsq(?)(1) 
31 KttoK7ch Resigns. 

(A) Not good. P to Q B 4is 
Black’s best defence, for if White 
takes the B P the answer is B t. 
Kt ch, followed by Q to R 4, Nor 
can any great advantage be proved 
for White if Black Castles at the 
present juncture. 

(B) If7....BtoQ2,8Bt.B 
ch,Q t.3B,9 PtP, Pt. P,10Q - 
to K 2 ch, B to K 2, 11 Castles K 
side, Kt to B 8 (or 11... . Castles, 
12 Kt t. P), 12 Kt to K 5, Ktt. 
Kt, 13 Q t. Kt, with a superior 
game. 

(C) This compromises Black’s 
position seriously. B to K 3 was 
about his best play. 

NIVERSITY 

PRINCETON U 

74 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(D) Overlooking Black’s in- 
genious reply. He ought to have 
proceeded to win the P at once by 
15 Q to B 3, Kt to Q2 (if 15.... 
Bt. Kt, 16 Pt. B,Q t. P,17 Rt. 
P, Q to K sq (best), 18 Kt to Kt 5, 

to R 3, 19 Kt to Q 6, Q to K3, 
R to K 5 and wins), 16 K Kt t. 
BP, &c. 

(E) Excellent Pat as by the 
next move Black firmly defends his 
weak point in the Q centre. 

(F) And also protects his R, 
ceaete guarding against Kt t. Q 
P. 

(G) The progress of the game 
seems to show this attack pre- 
mature, and, moreover, P to K R4 
instead was much superior, for if 
Black replied P to K Kt 3, White 
could still advance the K B P with 
a strong attack whether the Q or 
the P would take the P. For, in 
the former case, White would 
reply Q to Kt 2, followed by RB to 
to K B sq, and in the latter con- 

tingency White could proceed with 
Kt to K 2 and Kt to Kt 3, 

(H) A feeble move, which costs 
the game, Black had defended 
himself wonderfully well under 
great difficulties up to this point, 
and there was hardly more than a 
draw in the position if he had now 
played K to R 2. The game might 
then have gone on thus: 29... . 
K to R 2,30 Kt to Kt 4 (against 
almost any other move Kt to Q 3, 
followed accordingly by Kt t. B P 
or Kt to K 5 was a sufficient 
answer), Q to Kt 4,31 P to B6, 
Kt t. P, 32 Kt t. Kt ch, Q t. Kt, 
33 Qt. Q Pt. Q. 34 R to K7, 
K RK to Kt sq, 35 Rt. BP ch (if 
35 Rt RP, Rt. P36 KR t. P ch, 
K to Kt 3, and Black's game is 
superior, as his K is in better play), 
R to Kt 2, &. 

(1) A grievous blunder, but his 
gamle was now irreparably compro- 
mised, His R could ouly escape 
to R sq, and then followed ; 31 Kt to 
K 7 ch, K to R 2, 32 Q t. P, Kt to 
B 2, 33 Q t. B P and should win. 

+ 

Game 44, played on the 17th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ 

White. Black. White. Black 
W. Sreuyirz. S. Rosentu an. 16 Kt t. P Qto B2 
1Pt.K4 P to K 4 17 Qt Q2 KtoR 2 
2 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 18 Bhi KB4 (to (2 
3 Bto Kt 5 Kt to B8 19 K Rto K sy Q BR to Q sq 
4PtoQ3 PtocQ3 20 QtoK 3 KRtoKsq(D) 
5 PtoB3 P to K Kt 3 21 Kit. B Pt. Kt 
6 QKt te Q2 B to Ki 2 22 Qt. P(?)(E) Kt to B sq 

7 Ktto Bsq (A) Castles 23 QtoK 3(7) F) PtoK 4 
8 KttoK 3 Kt to kK 2 24 BtoR2 PtoQs 
9 Bto R 4 (B) P toQ 4(C) 25 Pt. P tg oe ey 
10 Qto B2 Kt to Kt 5 26 QtoQ3(?)(G) P to Q Kt 4 
11 Bto Kt 3 PtoQB3 (!) (H) 
12 PtoK R83 Kt t. Kt 27 PtoQR4 Ete Pr 
13 Bt. Kt PtoK R3 28 Bt. P Kt to Kt 3 
14 Castles, Q R BtoK 3 29 BtoB2 PtoB4 
15 PwQ4 PtQP 30 PtoK 5 (1) Rtok3 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’S GAMES. _ 75 

White. 

iss] 

31 RtoK 4 QtoR2 
82 QtoKt5(J) KRtoQe 
83 Q to K 2 Q to R8ch 
34 K to Q2 Q to R4ch 
35 K to B sq QtoR8 ch 
36 KtoQ2(K) Qt. P 
37 K to K sq P to B5(L) 
38 R(K 4) t. P Bt. P(!)) QD) 
39 RtoK4(N) Kt. Reh 
40 Bt. R(O) Bto B 6 ch 
41 K to B sq Qt. Q ch 
42 Rt Q Rt. R 
43 Kt. RK BtoQ5 
44 Bto B2 K to Kt 2 
45 BtoB4 Kt to Q 4 
Drawn game. 

(A) White's plan of development 
is the same as introduced in the 
first game of the Steinitz-Black- 
burne match, 1876. Black’s modi- 
fication of the defence is an improve- 
ment. M. Rosenthal judiciously 
refrains from advancing P to Q R 
3 and Pto Q Kt 4, which would 
give White a mark for an early 
attack by P to Q BR 4. 

(B) A move lost in order to 
avoid an exchange which could be 
offered by B to Q 2, and might 
have been even acceptable if White 
had castled instead. He had nothin 
to fear from P to B 3, which woul 
only drive him where he wanted 
to go. 

(C) Black might have now im- 
proved his position by Kt to R 4, 
which gave to his projected advance 
of the Q P greater strength by 
opening a protection for the K P, 
and it also prepared the eventual 
advance of the K B P, besides 
menacing Kt to B 5 in some con- 
tingencies. 

(D) He could have saved the P 
by P to Q R 3, when the gamo 
might have proceeded thus: 20 
scrote OO ORS 2 PtP; Pt. 
P, 22 Kt t. B (or 22 B to Kt 3, B 
t. Kt, &.), 22.... Pt. Kt, 23 Q 
t. P, Rt. B, 24. Q t. Kt, 24 Bt. P, 
with Bishops of opposite colours. 

(E) Bad play. P t. P first would 
have given White a much clearer 
superiority, no matter how Black 
retook. 

(F) Q to R 5 was much better, 
for Black could only dislodge the 
Q by P to Kt 3, whereupon Q to 
R 6 would hamper Black's game 
and provide the retreat of White's 
Queen to the K side when neces- 
sary. 

(G) Very weak. Q to Kt 3 was 
clearly the right play, e.y.: 26 Q to 
Kt 3, P to B 4 (or 26.... Kt to 
Q 3,27 PtoK 5, Kt to B 4,28 Q 
to () 3, &.), 27 Q to B7, Q to Kt 
4, 28 K to Kt sq, R to (Q 2,29 B 
toQ B4,Q to R 5,30 P to Q Kt 
3, Rt. Q, 31 Pt. Q, &e. 

(H) An excellent move, which 
White finds extremely difficult to 
parry. 

(I) If 30 P to Q Kt 3, Pto B 5, 
31 Pt. P, R to Q B sq, 32 B to Kt 
3, Kt t. P, 33 B t. Kt, Q to Kt 4, 
with a strong attack. 

(J) Useless, () to KR 3 was the 
proper move, for Black could not 
well exchange, ¢.g.: 32 Q to R 3,Q 
t. Q, 33 Pt. Q, Kt to Q 4, 34 B to 
Q Kt 3, P to B 5,35 R(K 4)t. 
P, &e. 

(K) An examination will prove 
that B to Kt sq would bein Black’s 
favour, who would retain great win- 
ning prospects, ¢.g.: 36 B to Kt sq, 
Kt to RB 5, 87 R to Q 3, R to Kt 3, 
38 Rto R3,Q t. R,39 Pt. Q, Rt 
B ch, 40 K t. R, Kt to B 6 ch, 41 
K to B sq, Kt t.Q ch, 42 Rt. Kt, P 
to B 5,43 P to K 6, P to Q 6, 44 
R to R 2 (if P to K 7, Black takes 
the R, followed by R to Q) 8 ch 
and queening the P; and if 44 R 
to K 3, P to () 7 ch, 45 K to Q sq, 
P to B 6, 46 Kt. P (best), B t. R, 
47 P to K 7, R to Q Kt 4 and 
wins), 44....B to B sq, with a 
much superior game. 

(L) There seems to have been 

VE al rn 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

76 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

nothing more promising for Black, 
since White threatened to capture 
the P with the K R under any cir- 
cumstances. He also apparently 
could not afford to give the oppo- 
nent much time for asserting the 
numerical superiority of the Pawns 
on the-K side. 

(M) A beautiful rejoinder, which 

compels White to reduce forees in 
order to draw. 

(N) If 39 B t. P ch, K t. B, 40 
() t. () (neither () to Kt 4 ch nor R 
to Kt 4 ch would save the game), 
40....Bt. Q dis. ch and wins. 

(O) Qt. R would also leave no 
more than a drawn position. 

+e 

Game 45, played on the 22nd of May. 
THREE KNIGHTS’. 

White Black. 
8. Rosenruat, W. Srersivz. 
1PtoK 4 PtoK4 
2K KttoB3 Q Kt to B3 
3 KttoBs P to K Kt 3 
4PtoQ4 Peer 
+ Kt to Q 5 (A) B to B 4 (B) 
6 Bt QB4 Pt0Q3 
7 QBto Kt5 Ptob3 
8 BtoR4 K to B sq (C) 
IQtQ2 (D) KtoKt2(?)( E) 
10 PtoQ Kt 4 B to Kt 3 
ll Ktt. B RP t. Kt 
12 Ktt. P Qto Kk 2 
13 PtoK B3 Kt to K 4 

14 BtoQKt3(?)(F) KttoR3(?)(G 

15 Castles, KR = PtoK Kt4H 
16 Bto Kt3 Kt to B2 
17 QR to K sq P toQ B41) 
18 Kt to Kt R to Q sq 

5 
19 PtoK B4(J) PtoKt5 

20 Kt to B3 BtoK3 

21 Kt toQ5 Bt. Kt 

22 Bt. B QtoB2 

23 Pt.P(?)(K) Kt PtP 

24 Rto Kt sq Rto R2 

25 Rto Kt 5 R to K sq 
26 K R to Kt Kt to Q sq 
27 PtoK 5 Kt to B 4 (L) 
28 Pt. Pch Kt.P 

29 Qto B3 ch K to Kt 3 
30 R to K sq Rt. Reh 
3LQuR Q toQ2(?)(M) 
32 R to Kt 6 Kt to B3 

33 Bto R4 (!)(N) Kt t. B(O) 
34 Qt. Kt QtoB4 

35 LB to B 4(!) Qt. K B P(?) 

White. 

36 BtoQ3 ch K to B2 
37 Qt. P ch KtoK3 
38 Rt. Kt Qto K 6ch(P) 
39 K to B sq Q to B 5 ch 
40 K to Kt sq Q to K 6 ch 
41 K to B sq Q to B5 ch 
42 KtoK 2 Q) to K 4 ch 
43 K to Q sq Pt Rk 

44 Qt. QtP 

45 B to B sq (1) (Q) Q to Kt 8 
46 QtoR6 Q to Q 5 ch 
47 K to Bsq Q to B 5 ch 
43 K to Q sq Q to Q5ch 
49 Qt.Q3 Q to R 8 ch 
50 K toQ 2 Qt. P (R) 
51 QtoB4ch Qt. Q 

52 Bt. Qch PtoQ+4 
53 Bto K 2 P to Kt 6 
54 KtoK 3 K tok 4 
55 PtoB4(!) (8) Kt B4 
56 KtoB3 KtoK 4 
57 Kt. P K toQ5 
58 KtoB4 PtP 

59 P to Kt4 Resigns. 

(A) A new move in the present 
position, which, however, by best 
play on the other side should lead 
to no more than an even game at 
the utmost. 

(B) B to Kt 2, as played subse- 
quently* in the second round, is 
perhaps preferable, 

(C) P to K R 4, threatening to 
win a piece by P to K Kt 4 and 

nal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’8 GAMES. 77 

R 5, was now the correct play. The 
move in the text was made as a 
preparation to Kt K 4, which at 
present appears dangerous, ¢.9.: 
8....KttoK 4,9 Ktt. Kt, QP 
t. Kt, 10 Q to B3, P to K Kt 4 
(or 10.... BtoK 2, 11 Kt t. B, 
Qt. Kt, 12 Bt. Kt, Rt. B, 13 Q 
t. P), 11Q to Rich, KtoB su, 
12 Kt to Kt 6, Q to K 2, 13 Kt t. 
R, Pt.B (or 13.... B to Kt5ch, 
14P to B 3, Pt. P, 15 Castles Q 
side, threatening RK to Q 8 ch, 
and thus saving the piece), 14 
Castles K side, and though White's 
Kt is blocked in, he in the mean- 
while is the exchange ahead, with a 
strong attack. 

(D) Threatening Bt. P, followed, 
if Kt takes, by Q to R 6 ch and Q 
to Kt 7, winning. 

(E) Feeble. There was no dan- 
ger now in P to K Kt 4, followed 
by Kt to K 4. 

(F) Inferior to B to K 2. 

(G) For now Black could have 
obtained a very good game by P to 
Q B4, threatening P to B 5. White 
had no better answer than B t. Kt, 
which the R would retake, followed 
by Kt to B 5 and Q to K 4. 

(H) This weakens Black's K side 
still more. Kt from K 4 to B 2 at 
once Was superior. 

(I) Unnecessarily weakening the 
Q side. B to Q 2 was more to the 
purpose. 

(J) White could have won a 

Pawn at once by Rto Q sq, with a 
fine attack. 

(K) Q to B 3, threatening P to 
K 5, was undoubtedly stronger. 

(L) Best, as he could not take 
twice owing to the ultimate check 
of the Q at Kt 5. 

(M) Very bad play. Black had 
already obtained the superior game 
for the ending, his Pawns on the 
Q side being better posted, while 
the adverse Pawns on that wing 
were weak and isolated. Q to K 2 
was the proper move, when the 
game might have proceeded thus: 
31....QtoK 2, 32 BtoK 4, Q 
to K 3, 33 Q to K 2, K to B 3, &e. 
By the move in the text White’s R 
is only driven to a better square. 

(N) A very fine move, which 
paralyses Black's game. 

(0) P to K BR 3 was, perhaps, 
better. It should be noticed that 
Black's {R could not move on 
account of the rejoinder Rt. P, fol- 
lowed by Q to K 6 ch, which forces 
mate in a few moves. 

(P) If 38....Q toB8 ch, 39 
B to B sq, Q to K 6 ch, 40 K to R 
sq, Q to B 5 (best) (for Q to Kt 6 
ch, followed by Q t. P ch, is threat- 
ened), 41 B to B 4 ech and wins. 
For Black dare not take on account 
of Q to Kt 8 ch, and if K to K 4 
White answers Q to R 5 eh. 

(Q) This wins. The ending cal- 
culations are tinely worked out by 
M. Rosenthal. 

(R) He might have prolonged 
resistance by P to Q 4, but he could 
not save the game. 

(S) A clever finishing stroke. 

)rvour 1 re L 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

73 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 46, played on the 28th of May. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. 

B. Exouiscu. W. Srernitz. 
1PtK4 Ptok 4 
2K KttoB3 Q KttoB3 
3 Bto Kt 5 PtQR3 
4BtoR4 PtoK Kt3(A) 
5 Pte Q4 4.P 
6 Ktt. P B to Kt 2 
7 BtoKk 3 Kt toB3 
8 KttoB38(B) Castles 
9 Kt t. Ket Q Pt, Kt 
10 Qt Q Rt. Q 
ll PtoB8 Kt to K sq 
12 BtoQ2 Kt toQ3 
13 Bto Kt 3 PtoQB4 
14Po0QR3 PtoB5 
15 BtoR2 Bto K 3 
16 Castles, Q R Kt to Kt 4(C) 
17 Kt t. Kt P t. Kt 
18 Bto B4(!) (D) K RtoBsq(E) 
19 PtoB3 PtoQB4 
20 BtoQ6 B to B sq 
21 B to Kt sq P to Kt 5 
22 RPtP PtP 
23 Bt. B Kt. B 
24 Rto Q6 (!) (F) Pt. P 
25 Pt. P Rto RG 
26 K to Q 2 P to Q Kt 4 
27 B to B2 (G) K to K 2 
28 RtoQ4 R to Q sq 
29 Rt R Kt. R 
30 R to K sq 

Drawn game. 

(A) The K fianchetto is not well 
established for the defence in the 
Ruy Lopez, and especially doubtful 
alter White’s B has been driven to 
R4 

(B) Kt t. Kt at once is prefer. 
able,as Black can hardly afford to 

retake with the Q P and allow the 
exchange of Queens before having 
castled. In the other alternative 
his doubled Q B P becomes a source 
of greater trouble. 

(C) Best. If 16....PtoQ Kt 
, 17 Bto Kt 5, R to Q 2,18 Kt 
Q5,&. And if 16....Rto 
2,17 Kt to R 4,P to B 6,18 Kt 
P, Bt. Kt, 19 Q Bt. B, Bt. B, 
OP to K 5. 

(D) A very fine move, which 
puts Black on the defensive. 

(E) P to B 6 was unsatisfactory, 
for White would exchange the B 
and ultimately shut out the other 
Bby P to K 5. Again, PtoQ B4 
was of no use, 49.: 18....P to 
Q B4,19 P to B 3, P to Kt 5, 20 
RK Pt P, Rt. R ch, R t. R, and 
Black dare not take the B on ac. 
count of R to Q 6 ch, followed by 
B to BR 6. 

(F) A beautiful move, which 
parries the attack in all directions. 
Had he captured the P, Black 
would have answered P to B 6, 
threatening P to B 7. White was, 
therefore, bound to take, and after 
Rt. P ch, Black would, by R to Kt 
6, at least recover the Kt P with a 
strong passed P on the Q Kt file. 

(G) All this is fine play. Black 
will gain no advantage now by P 
to Kt 5, followed by P to B 6 ch, 
for the K can safely retreat to K 3, 
and the B can afterwards be de. 
fended by the K R if attacked. 

rosy 

to 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’S GAMES, 79 

Game 47, played on the 29th of May. 

EVANS’ GAMBIT. 

White Black. 

H. E. Brep. W., Sveryirz. 
1PtK4 PtoK4 

2 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 
3 BtoB4 BtoB4 
49PtoQ Kt4 BtsF 

5 PtoB3 BtoR4 

6 Castles Bto Kt3 
7PtoQ4 Pt FP 

§ Pt. P P to Q3 

? Bto Kt 2 Kt to B3 
10 PtoQ5 Kt to K 2(A) 
11 Bt. Kt PtB 
12 Pt QR4 Castles 
13 K to R sq PtooK B4 
14 Kt to K Kt 5 PtoK R38 
15 KttoK R3 Et7E 
16 RtoR3 Kt to Kt 3 
17 Rto K Kt 3(B) KtoR2(?)(C) 
18 QtoKR5 Qto K R5(D) 
19 Kt toKtich K to Kt sq 
20 Qt. Q Kt t.Q 

21 Kt to K dis. ch Kt to Kt 3 
22 Ktt.R K t. Kt 
23 Kt toQR3(?)(E) Kt to B 5 

24 Kt to B2 PtoQB3 
25 Pt. P Pt. P 

26 PtoR5(!) (F) BtoQsq 
27 Kt toQ4 BtoQ2 
28 Rto Q Kt 3 PtoQ4 
29 BtoR6 PwoQB4 
30 P to K Kt 3 Pt. Kt 

31 Pt. Kt Bt.'P 

32 Bto Kt 7 tae fe 
83 RtoQ@Rsq BtoKt: 
34 Bt. P BtoK B4 
35 BtoB4(G) PtoQ6é 
3G R to Kt 6 B to Kt 5 
387 Rto Qi R to Bsq (H) 
38 Bto Kt 3 Bt P 

39 K to Kt2 B to Kt 3 
40 BtoQsq (I) BtoK3 
41 RtoK R5 Pto K 6 
42 PtoK BS B to Q 4ch(J) 
48 BtoB3 Rto B7ch 
44 K to Kt 3 Bt. B 

45 Kt. B Rto B7 ch 

White. Black. 

46 KtoKk 4 PtoK7 

47 Kt. P RtoBs 
Resigns. 

(A) In opposition to the books, 
I consider the combination of 
Black’s last two moves the best 
defence in this and similar forms 
of the Evans’ Gambit. The K side, 
though seemingly exposed by the 
exchange which follows, can well 
take care of itself, while the ma- 
jority of Pawns on the other wing 
7 ar to tell in the end without 

islodging an important piece b 
the usual Kt to OR 4, J . 

(B) White has formed his attack 
from the 12th move in a novel and 
ingenious manner. 

(C) A mistake. Q to R 5 was 
clearly indicated as the proper 
move. If, then, 18 PtoK B4,P 
t. P in passing, 19 Qt. P, B t. Kt, 
20 R t. B, Qt. B, 21 Rt. P, K to 
Kt 2, and wins. K to Kt 2 was 
also better than the move in the 
text, eg.:17....K to Kt 2,18 Q 
to R 5, B t. Kt,19 Pt. B (or 19 
R t. B,Q to Kt 4),19....Qto 
B 3, followed by Q R to K sq. 

(D) The only move, as Ki to 
Kt 5 ch, followed by Kt to K 6, is 
threatened. If18....K to Kt 2, 
19 Pto B4, Pt. P in passing, 20 
K Rt. P,Q to K 2, 21 Kt to B4, 
winning, the check of the Q at K 
8 being of no use, for the R inter- 
poses. 

(E) Kt to Q 2 was certainly 
better, and might have led to the 
following continuation : 23 Kt to Q 
2, Bto B4(or23.... Kt to K 4, 
24 B to K 2, followed by P to K B 
4), 24 Kt to Kt 3, P toQ B 3,25 P 
toR 5, Bto B 2, 26 PtoR6, Pt. 

inal Tron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

80 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

R P, 27 Kt to Q 4, Kt to K 2, 28 
Kt t. B, Kt t. Kt, 29 R to Q Kt 3, 
with much better prospects than in 
actual play. 

(F) The object of this highly 
ingenious move is to bring the R 
to Q R 3, with an attack on the B, 
should the offer of the P be ac- 
cepted, thus gaining time for the 
strong advance of P to K B 3, 
which was not good at present on 
account of the reply P to K 6, fol- 
lowed by Kt to R - 

to Q 2, &c. 
(H) The simplest way 
the game was 37,...R 

Bt. B, P to Q 7, 39 B to K t 3,B 
t. P, 40 K to Kt 2, Pto K 6,41 R 
t. P, or (41 B to Q a4, B t. B, 42 
Rt. B, Pto K 7), 41....PtoK 
7,42 Rt. P ch, K to K sq, and 

wins. 

(I) He had no good defence. If 
40 P to B 5, B to B 6 ch, 41 K to 
B sq, or (41 K to Kt 3, R to B 6, 
rah pgs Seat: By , 43 Bt. B, 
Rt. B ch, 44 K to Kt |, Rto B 

.R to BG, 42 Bto 

43 Rt. B, to B 7, 

RtoK5,R to B? ch, 45 K to 
sq, Rt. RP, RK t. P, 46 B to 

ch, and wins. 

(J) All the following moves of 
White seem to be forced 

—s «—— 

Game 458, played on the 30th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White Black, White. Black. 
W. Sremrrz B. Exouisen. 25 PtoKt6(?)(G) Qt. P 
1PtK4 PtoK4 26 Rto Kt5 Q to Q3 
2 KttoKB3 Kt to Q B3 27 Pt. P PtoQBS5 
3 BtoQ Kt 5 PtoQR3 28 Kt(Kt3)toQ2 Kt to Kt 5 
4BtoQR4 Kt to B3 29 Pto Kt 3 PtoQ B6 (H) 
5 Po Q3 PtoQs 30 Ktt. K P Pt. Kt 
6 PtoB3 P to K Kt3 31 Qt. Kt Qt. R P (1) 
7 PtoQ4 P to Q Kt 4 82 Qto K Gch (J) Qt Q 
8 Btokt3(A) BtoQ Kt2 33 Pt. Q K R toQBsq 
9Pt QR4 B to Kt 2 34 PtoK7(K) PtoB7(L) 
10 PtoQs Kt to K 2 35 Kt to Q2 Pto K R3(M) 
1l QtoK 2 Castles 36 BtoK 3 RtoR5 
12 Bto Kt 5 Kt to Q2 (B) 387 RtoQBS Kt t. P 
13 Ft. Kt Q B4 38 Rt. Rech Kt t. R 
14 BtoB? PtoK B4 39 R to Bsq RtoR7 
15 Pt. BP Kt Pt. P 40 Ktt. P Kt to K 2 
16 Pto Q Kt4 Kt to Q 2 41 KtoBsq(N) KttoB3 
17 Pt. P PtoK 5 42 KtoK 2 Kt to Kt 5 
18 Kt to Q 4 Bt.QP 43 K to Q 2 B to Kt 7 
19 Rto RB 5 (C) PtoB4 44 Rt. P Kt t. R (O) 
20 Bto Kt 3 Bt. B 45 K t. Kt BtokKt2 dis, ch 
21 Ktt. B Kt to K 4 46 K to Q 3 RtoR5 
22 Castles {) to B2 47 PtoR4 K toB2 
23 PtoKt5(D) K Kt to Kt 48 KttoB5 Rto RB 
3 (BE) 49 K to K 4 R to Q Kt 8 
24 PtoQB4(?)(F) P to Q4 50 Kt to Q3 R to Kt 4 

, 
rial Tre 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINIT2Z’°8 GAMES. 81 

White. Black. 
51 KttoB4 R to K 4 ch 
52 KtoB3 RtoQR4 
53 K to Kt4 R to Q Kt 4 
54 Kt to R5 B to Q 5 (P) 
55 Bt. B R to Kt 5 
56 Kt to B4 Rt. B 
57 KtoR5 R to Q 8 
58 K to Kt 4 K to BS 

(A) BtoB 2 is much preferable. 

(B) He gives up a Pawn unne- 
cessarily, which he could have well 
saved by P t. P, followed by P to ( 
B 4. 

(C) Not a good move. P to K 
Kt 4 would have given White a 
strong attack instead of his being 
reduced to the defensive. 

(D) Much inferior to 25 B t. Kt, 
Q t. B, 24 Pt. P, P to Q 4, 25 Kt 
to Q 4, P to B 5, 26 P to B 3, Ke. 

(E) If P to Q BS White could 
answer Bt. Kt. 

(F) Dangerous. It was better 
to remove the R to R 2. 

(G) Whereby he loses his hard 
earned advantage and drifts into 
an inferior position. The correct. 
continuation was 25 P t.P, P to B 
5, 26 R to Q B sy, Ktto Q 6, 27 RK 
to B 2, K R to Q B sq, 28 © Kt to 
R 3, &e. 

(H) Black now conducts the 
attack with rigorous precision. He 
rightly judges that the Q B P 
should be preserved for winning 
purposes, and he therefore sacrifices 
the K P. 

(1) Strongerthan 31.... Kt to 
K 4, 32 BtoB 4, Kt t. Q, 33 Bt. 
Q, K R to Q Bsq, 34 BtoB 5, R 
t. P, 35 Kt to R 3, and if Black now 
take the two minor pieces for the 
R, commencing with R t. B, White 
will afterwards win with the Q P. 
Otherwise, however, the game seems 
also to remain somewhat in White's 
favour. 

(J) If 32 RtoB 5, Kt to K 4, 
33 Q to R 5, Kt to B 6 ch, 34K to 
Kt 2, Qto K 7, 35 P to Kt 4, Kt 
to K 8 ch, 36 K to Kt sq, to BG, 
and wins. 

(K) A desperate resource in a 
helpless position. 

(L) Which, however, succeeds 
beyond expectation, owing to this 
faulty advance, The proper play 
was K to B 2, and winning became 
then only.a question of time, ¢.g.: 
34....K to B 2, 35 R to Kt 7, K 
to K sy, 36 R to Q Bay, NR to R&S, 

(M) Black sees too late that in 
reply to his queening his P White 
would queen his P checking. 

(N) If 41 Kt to B5, Kt to B 4, 
42 Kt to Q3 (or 42 Bio B4, Kt 
to q) 5), 42.... Ktt. B, 43 Pt. 
Kt, Rto R 8, 44 Rt. R, Bt R, 
followed by B to Kt 7, winning a 
piece. 

(O) Much better than the tempt- 
ing B to B 8 ch, which would have 
left Black with less protection for 
the weak R P. 

(P) By this fine move Black 
secures an easy draw. 

—_—So—— 

Onginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

82 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 49, played on the lst of June, 
EVANS’ GAMBIT, 

White. | Black. 
M, Tcuraorm. W, STRINITZ. 
1PtoK4 P to K 4 

2Ktto0KB3 KttoQB3 

3 BtoB4 Bto B4 
4PtoQ Kt4 Bt. P 

5 PtoQB3 BtoB4 

6 Castles Pt Q3 

7 PtoQ4 Pt, P 

8 Pt. P Bto Kt 3 

9 KttoBs Kt to R4 
10 Bto K Kt PtoK BS 
ll BtoB4 Kt t. B 

12 Qto R4ch Q to Q2 

13 Q t. Kt Q to B2 

14 KttoQ5(A) Ptokt4(?)(B) 
15 Bto Kt 3 Bto K 3(C) 
16 Q to R4ch B to Q 2 (D) 
17 QwRS R to B sq 

18 K Rto Ksq(E) Pto Kt5 

19 Kt t. B R Pt. Kt 
20 Kt to Q2 B to K 3 (F) 
21 PtoB4(!) (@) Pt. Pep. 
92 Ktt. P Kt to K 2 
23 PtoK } BPt.P 

24 Pt. P PtoQ4 

25 Rto K B sq Ktto B4(?)(H) 
26 Kt to Q 4 Q to Kt 3 (I) 
27 Kt t. Kt Bt. Kt 

28 BtoR4(!) (J) Pto B4 (K) 
29 Rte B3 K to Q 2 

30 QRtoK Bsq K R to Bag 
31 Rto K Kt 4 Qto R3(?)CL) 
2 Bto BG Bto K 8 (M) 
33 Q to R 7 (!) (N) Kto B2(?)(O) 
34 Rte Q Kt K to Q 2 

35 Qt PatKt3 RtoB3 

36 Qt. P ch Rto B2 

37 Q to Kt 5 ch (?) RtoB3 

38 Q to Kt 7 ch R to B2 

39 Qto R6 (1) Resigns. 

(A) Astrong continuation, which 
T hear first occurred in some games 
between Messrs. Clere and Bez- 
krowny. It has been fully analysed 
by M. Rosenthal in La Vie Moderne. 

(B) A bad move, and the souree 
of future difficulties. Tt was made 
under misapprehension that he 
could continue with P to K R 4, 
which, however, would have lost a 
Pawn, as will be seen. 

(C) If P to K R 4, as originall 
intended, White could proceed with 
Kt t. B, followed by Q t. Q ch and 
K BR to Q B sq, since White would 
capture the @ B P checking, and 
Black's K could not support the P 
at () 3 on account of P to Q 5 
mate. Nevertheless it was probably 
better to adopt that continuation 
with the object of giving up the 
QP by P to Q B 3 in answer to 
the ultimate attack of the Rook at 
© B sq. Black would then remain 
with even Pawns and a fair game. 

(D) If Q > interposed, White 
might exchange Kt for B and then 
Q, followed, if K retakes, by P to 
Q5and Kt toQ 4. This Kt would 
then gain entrance either at Q 
Kt 5 or K B 5, and White would 
recover the Pawn with the much 
superior game, 

(E) A very strong preparation 
for the attack in the centre. 

_(F) Lost time. The natural move 
Kt to kK 2 was certainly stronger. 

(G) Finely played. This P must 
be captured in passing, or else 
White would obtain an irresistible 
attack by P to BO, followed by P 
to K 5. 

(H) Agrave error. Kt to Q B3 
instead would have enabled him to 
oppose the © next move, either 
at K 2 or B sq. 

(I) White threatened R t. Kt, 
followed by R to K B sq. If Black 
now oppose Queens at K 2, White 
would exchange and win a piece. 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’S GAMES, 

(J) An excellent move, which 
greatly augments White's attack. 

(K) Apparently Black’s best 

fence, 

(L) Black’s game becomes now 
disorganised in consequence of this 
feeble move. Q to K 3 afforded 
much better defensive prospects. 
The game might then have gone 
on thus: 

) ee Q to K 3 

32 QtoR4ch. This seems best, 
for if R checks first, the K moves 
to B3 

> ee KtoB2 
33 R to Kt 7 ch K to Kt sq 
34 BtoK 7 K RB to Q sq 

And though Black loses the ex- 
change, he retains fair prospects 
of drawing, and perhaps some win- 
ning chances. 

(M) Rt. B was also of no use, 
for Black could not afterwards 
capture the P on account of Q to 

83 

R 4 ch, followed by doubling the 
Rooks on the B at K B 3. 

(N) White seizes the winning 

opportunity with the 

energy. 

greatest 

(O) Useless and feeble, but there 
was really no defence. If K to B 3, 
the game might have proceeded 

thus: 

84 R to Q Kt 3 
P to Q5,35 Qt. Pat 

Or 34.0.4 < 

P to Kt 4 

Kt 6 ch, followed by Q to Q 6, 

winning a piece, 

35 Rt. P 

36 R to Kt sq ch 

37 Qto R4 ch 

38 Q to Kt 8 ch 
.K to Q 

Or 38... 
sq ch, &. 

39 R to K sq ch 

K 
K ti 
K 
K 
5,39 R to Q 

K toB4 

40 Q to Q 3 ch, and mates next 

move, 

he 

Game 50, played on the 4th of June. 
BISHOP’S GAMBIT. 

White. Black. 
J. Mortimer. W. Sraerirz 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 4 
2PtKB4 Pt.?P 
3 BtoB4 PtoQ4 
4BtP Q to R5ch 
5 K to Bsy P to K Kt 4 
6 KttoQ B3 B to Kt 2 
7PtoQ4 Kt to K 2 
8 KttoB3 QtoR4 
9 PtoK R4 PtoK R83 

10 PtoK5 (?) (A) Castles 

ll K to Kt sq P to Kt 5 

12 Kt to K sq Rto Qs 

13 KttoQ3(B) Kt to Kt 3 
(?) (0) 

14 Ktt. P Kt t. Kt 

15 Bt. Kt Kt to B3 (D) 

16 Bt. Kt Pt.B 

White. Black. 
17 KttoK2(?)(E) PtoQB4 
18 PtoB3 Q to Kt 3 
19 Qto Q2 B to Kt2 
20 RtoR2 PtP 
21 Pt. P PtoQB4 
22 QtoK 3 PtP 
23 Ktt. P Pto KR4(F) 
24 Pto K Kt3 RwQ4 
25 RtoQ Bsq R to K sq 
26 R(R2)toK B2 het 
27 Bt. B (Q) R(Q 4) t. B 
28 QtoB4 RtoK8ch(H) 
29 Rt. R(D Rt. Reh 
30 R to B sq Rt. Rech 
3L Kt. R (J) Q to Kt 8 ch 
32 KtoB2 Qt. Kt P ch 
33 Kt to K 2 Q to Kt 8 ch 
34 Qto K 3 QtoQB3(K) 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

84 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
35 Qto B4 Q to Kt 3 ch 
36 QtoQ4 Q to R 4 
37 QtoK 3 Bto BG 
38 Kt to BS K to Kt 2 
39 PtoR 4 QtoK B4 
40 K to K sy PtoR4 
41 K to Q2 BtroB3s 
42 QtoQ4ch PwB3 
43 Kt to K2 QtoQ2 
44 Qt. Q Bt. Q 
45 Kt to BS K to B2 
46 K to KS K to K3 
47 K to Q4 PtoB4 
48 Kt to Q5 K toQ5 (?) (L) 
4) Kt to BO Bt. P 
50 Ktt. P B to K sq 
51 Kt to Kt 7 BtoQ2 (7) (M) 
52 Pt RS K to K 2 
53 P to R 6 K to B2 

54 Ktto R5 (!) (N) K to Kt 3 

55 PtoR7 Ke 

56 Kt to B6 ch K to Kt 3 
57 Ktt. B P to B 5 (0) 
58 Pt. P KtoB4 
59 K to K 3 PtoR5 
60 KttoB5 Pto RG 

61 Kt to Kt3 PtoR?7 

62 Kt to Q4ch K to B3 

63 Kt to B2 K to B4 

Drawn game. 

(A) The advance of this Pshould 
be delayed as long as possible in 
order to reserve Kt to K 5 for some 
eventualities. The Pat K 4 also 
prevents the entrance of the ad- 
verse Kt at K B 4, which often 
gives the second player a strong 
counter attack. 

(B) Nothing better. If his K 
B moved Black could take the K P 
with the B. 

(C) An extraordinary failure in 
taking full advantage of a winning 
position. 13.... Ktt. B, 14 Kt 
t. Kt, Rt. Kt, 15 Ktt. P, Qu K 
P, 16 Kt t. R, Q t, Kt, would have 
left Black with two minor pieces 
for the R, and o splendid game, 
instead of which he actually loses 
an important P. 

(D) Hazardous and weak. P to 
Q B 4 was clearly the strongest 
coutinuation. - 

(EB) The game might have taken 
a different turn if White had seen 
the proper move here, which was 
Kt to K 4, The following was a 
likely continuation: 17 Kt to K 
4, Qto B4, 18 Qto Qs, Qt. B, 
19 RtoK Bsq, BtoQ RS, 20K 
t.Q, Bt. Q, 21 Pt. B, and Black 
dare not take the Q P on account 
of Kt to B 6 ech. White remains 
therefore with a P ahead and Kt 
against B for the ending. 

(F) Black had to guard now 
against P to R 5, which would 
either drive the Q to an uncomfort- 
able retreat at R 2 or allow White's 
Kt to come in at B 6. 4 

(G) The Black B being pinned 
might have been utilised for some 
preparatory move like Kt to Kt 3. 

(H) White has defended himself 
excellently, and there seems to have 
been no better prospect for Black 
tocontinue the attack. If28.... 
R to K 5, 29 QtoQ 2, RtoQ sq 
(or 29....Qto Q 3, 30 Q to Kt 
5 ch and Black dare not move the 
K to B sq on account of Rt. P ch, 
followed hy R to K B sq ch), 30 
toQ B4, BtoQ 4, 31 R toR 4, &e. 

(1) R. to K B sy would have pre- 
served the P. 

(J) Best. If Q retakes, Black 
wins by 31....Q to K 5,32 Kt to 
B45, K to R2, 33 K to R 2, K to 
Kt 3, 34 Kt toQ 6, Q to B 7 ch, 35 
K to Kt sy, Q to B 4 ch. 

(K) Though Black is a P ahead 
he can gain nothing by exchanging 
Queens, his K R P being weak. 

(L) Feeble. Bt. P at once fol- 
lowed by K to B 2, if White checked 
at B 4, gave much better winning 
prospects. 

(M) Weak again. The proper 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’S GAMES. 85 

continuation was 51....0B to Kt 
3,52 Pto R5, Bto N2, 53 Kt to 
K 8 ch, K to K 2, &e. 

(N) A beautiful move which, in 
conjunction with White's previous 

play, shows that Mr. Mortimer pos- 
sesses remarkable powers of caleu- 

lation for the ending. 

(O) A draw is forced by this 
move. 

Game 51, played on the Sth of June, 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
S. WINAwer. W. Sreisrrz. 388 K to B28 Q to Kt 6 ch 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 4 39 KtoK 2 K to RA 
2K Kt te B3 Q Kt to B3 40 K toQsq(N) RtoR?7 
3 Bto Ktb Pto K Kt3 41 K to Bsq Q to B7 
+ Bt. Kt (A) QPre.B Resigns. 
5 PtoQs3 to Kt 2 
G BtoK3 QtoK2 (A) In one of the series of 
7 KttoB3 BtokKk3 games between Steinitz and Mac- 
8 Castles (B) PtoK R3 kenzie played at New York oc- 
9 Kt to Q2 P to K Kt 4 curred the following continuation : 
10 Pt QR3 Kt to B3 -4PtoQ4,Pt. P, 5 Ktt. P, B to 
1l Pt B38 Kt to Q 2 Kt 2,6 BtoK 3, Kt to B 3,7 Q 
12 Qt K sq PtooK R4 Kt to B 3, Castles, 8 Castles, Kt to 
13 QtoB2 P to Q Kt3 K 2. 
It K RtoKsq PtQB4 (B) It was better to wait until 
15 QRtoQKt sq(C) Kt to Ktsq(D) the opponent had castled on either 
16 Kt toQi5 B t. Kt (E) side, and then to follow his example 
17 Pt. B Kt to Q 2 on the corresponding wing. 
18 Pt QB4 PtoK B3 ; ‘ ‘ 
19 PtoQ4(F) BPt.P (C) Probably with the intention 
20 BL QP Qto B2 of preparing an attack by P to Q 
21 BtoK 3 P to R 5 (q) Kt 4 should Black attempt to castle 
22 Kt to K 4 Castles, K R on the Q side. 
23 P to eee) Pt. P ep. (D) With the object of bringing 
oe he AEN dad hy : the Kt rid BS to Q 5. 
ee PO ScCae (E) Forved, for if 16... . Q to 
27 Pt. P PtP Q sq, 17 Bt. Kt P,Q t. B18 Kt 
28 Bto B2 Kt toK4(!)(J) t. P ch, K to Q 2,19 Ke t. Rt, Kt 
29 Bto R4 RtoB4 to B 3,20 Ktt. P ch, with three 
30 K to B sq BtoB3 Pawns and Ki for two pieces and a 
31 Q to Q B (K) RtoKsq(!)(L) strong attack, which can be imme- 
32 Kt to K 6 Ktt. K BP() diately instituted by P to Q Kt 4. 
33 Bt. B Q to Kt 8 ch () 19 P to Q Kt 4, B to B sq, 
34 K to K 2 ( to K 6 ch 20 Pt, P, Ktt. P, 21 Q to B sq, 
35 K to B sq Kt to Q7 ch followed by Pt. Q 4, would have 
36 Qt. Kt (M) Qt. Q given White the much superior 
37 BtoB3 Q to Q 6 ch game, 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

RG LONDON CHESR TOURNAMENT. 

(G) Necessary for the purpose 
of castling on the K side, since 
otherwise his game on that wing 
would be broken up by P to K 
R 4. 

(H) Q to Q B 2 was now the 
proper play to prevent I5lack’s 
design. 

(1) Ruinous. Kt to Q 2 or B2 
gave some fair defensive prospects. 

(J) Threatening Q t. Kt, fol- 
lowed by Kt t. P ch. 

(K) An ingenious defence, but 
of no avail against best play. 

(L) If Bt. Kt, White would, of 
course, answer It t. Kt, and if 31 
..-- RK t. Kt, 32 Qt. Q ch, Kt ¢. 
4) (best), 88 Bt. R, Bt. B, and 
though Black has two minor pieces 

for the R, his yame is extremely 
difficult, especially for winuin 
purposes, as White is a P ah 
and has a compact majority of 
Pawns on the Q side. 

(M) Forved, for if K moved then 
followed Q to Kt 6 ch, and mate in 
two Inore moves. 

(N) If 4) Rto K Kt sy, Rto R 
7 ch, 41 K to B sy, R to K G7 ch, 
K moves, () t. R, mate. 

(a) This weak move, followed by 
the feeble continuation at the 25th 
and 26th moves,affords Mr. Steinitz 
the opportunity of finishing the 
yvaime by a very fine combination, 
which is carried out to the close 
in the best form of high-class 
Chess. 

Game 52, played on the Gth of June. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. 
B. Exouisen, W. Sreiyirz. 
1PtK4 PioK4 
2 Ktto K B38 Q Kt to BS 
3 Bto Kt 5 P to K Kt 3 
4 PtoQ4 PtP 
5 Ktt. P B to Kt 2 

6 BtoK 3 Kt to B3 

7Q Ktto bs Castles 

8 cei ; a “oa 
9 to Qu >to Q: 

10 34 Pr Q Kt t. P 
11 Kt t. Kt Q t. Kt (A) 
12 BtoK 2 Kt to Kt 5 
13 Bt. Kt Bt. B 

14 Kt to Kt3 Q t. Q (B) 
15 Ktt. Q QR to Q sq 
16 Poo QBS K R to K sq 
17 Ktto Kt3 P toQ Kt3 
18 PtoK R3 BtoK3 

19 KRtoQsq(C) PtoQB4 

°0 Bto Kid PtoK B3 
21 BtoB K to B2 
22 PtoK BS Pto K Kt 4 

White. Black. 
23 Rt R(?)(D) RLK 
24 Bto K 3 PteKR3 
25 BR to K sq PtoK Ba 
26 PtioK B4 Bto BS 
27 Pto Kt3 PtoQR4 
28 Kt to B sq PtoR5 

29 PtoQR3(E) Bt BS 

30 K te B2(2)(F) Pt. P 

31 Bt. KBP B to K Kt + 
32 Bt. B(G) Pt.B 

33 K to K 8 K to B3 

34 PtoK R4(H) Pt. P 

35 Pt. P R to K sq ch 
36 K to B2 RtR 

37 Kt.R K to K 4 
38 Kt to K 2 Bt. Kt 
39 Kt. B K to Bo 

40 P to B4 
41 Kto K 3 
42 K to K 4 
45 Kto K 5 

Resigns, 

K to kt 5 
P to B 5 ch 
PtoBe 

K to Kt 6 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

—_— «<) “<= “a 

STEINITZ’8 GAMES. 87 

(A) If Kt t. Kt White would 
answer B to K Kt 5, forcing either 
an exchange of pieces or theadvance 
of the K B P, which would block 
out Black's K B. 

(B) Black dissolves the game too 
early. He ought to have played 
Q to B 5 with the object of bring- 
ing his R into play at Q sq. 

(C) Injudicious. Black’s next 
move shuts out the Kt from the 
centre; Kt to Q 4 would either 
have compelled an exchange, leaving 
the parties with Bishops of oppo- 
site colours, or else would have 
given the Kt greater freedom of 
action vii K B 3. 

(D) This exchange of Rooks 
leaves Black the mastery of the 
most important open file. BtoB 
7 was much better. 

(E) Black threatened P to R 6. 

(F) A weak move which gives 
the opponent an opportunity of 
breaking into his position. Kt to 

K 2 was best as a preliminary, for 
it enabled him to capture the B P 
with the Ki if Black exchanged 
Pawns, and if 30 Kt to K 2, Bt. Ki, 
31 Rt. B, R to Q 8 ch, 32 K to 
Kt 2, R to Q Ki 8, 53 Rte Q 2, 
K to K 3, 34 K to B 3, with a de- 
fensible game, 

(G) If now Kt to K 2 Black 
would exchange Bishops, followed 
by R to Q 7, and if 32 K to K 3, 
RK to K sy ch, 33 K to B 2, Rt. R, 
34 K t. R, K to K 3, 35 Kt to K 2, 
K to Q 4, 36 B to B7 (or 36 B t. 

(H) White's game is lost any- 
how. If, for instance, he moves 
RK, to R sq, Black would answer 
K to K 4, followed by P to B 5 ch, 
and then Black’s R gains entrance 
at Q 7. 

— *e—_ 

(iame 53, played ou the Sth of June. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 

A. Seni an. W. Sternitz. 17 K RtoQ sq K BR to Q sy 
1PtoK 4 P to K 4 18 PwWQRS Bto Kt 6 
2 KttoK BS Kt toQBs3 19 Rt R Rt. R(C) 
3 Bto Kt 5 P to K Kt3 20 Kt toQ2 BtoR4 
4PtoQ4 PtP 21 KRto K sy PtoK R3 
§ KttP B to Kt 2 22 Pto K Kt 4 5 to B sq (D) 
6 BtoK3 KttoK B38 23 Kt to K 4 BtoB3 

7 QKtte BS Castles 24 KttoQ2(E) PtoK B3 
8 Castles Kt to K 2 5 Pte KR4 K to B2 

9 Bto B4 (A) PtoQ4 26 PtoB3 RtoQ4 
10 - Pt. = Q@ Ktt. P 27 KtoB2 P fo B 4 
1l Kt t. Kt Kt t. Kt 28 P to Kt 5 PioK R4 
12 Bt. Kt t. B 29 Bto B4(7)(F) Bio Q3 
138 PteQB3 PtoQ Kts(B) 30 PtoB4(G) RtoQs 

14 Qt BS Qt. Q 31 BtoK 3 Rt. K P 
15 Kt t.Q Pt QB4 32 Kt to B sq Rto RG 
16 PteK R38 Bwk3 Tiesigus. (H) 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

88 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(A) The first deviation from the 
opening moves of the preceding 
game, in which Herr Englisch 
played Q to Q 2 at this point. The 
move in the text is made with the 
view of effecting exchanges of two 
minor pieces, since Black’s inten- 
tion of opening the game by P to 
Q 4 is clearly indicated by the re- 
treat of the Kt to K 2, and is in 
conformity with the tactics alopted 
in similar positions on previous 
occasions. 

(B) Black has a little the pull 
for the ending with his two Bishops, 
and need not fear the exchanye of 
Queens, more especially as by the 
text move he ulso prepares the 
advance of P io () B 4, which pre- 
vents the further occupation of the 
Queen’s centre by any of the hostile 
minor pieces. 

(C) By slight pressure of de- 
veloping manecuvres Black has ob- 
tained some tangible advantage in 
the command of his Kk on the only 
open file. 

(D) Premature, B to QB 3 was 
a necessary preliminary, 

(E) Por drawing purposes, which 
legitimately, on the merits ef the 
relative positions, seem to bave bean 
White’s aim, cither Kt to Kt 3 or 

Kt to I 6 ch were Letter than this 
retreat. In the latter case the game 
might have proceeded thus; 24 Kt 
to 6b 6 ch, K to Kt 2, 245 P te Kt 5, 
B to K 2,26 B to B4, Bt. Kt, 
27 Pt Beh, K t.P, 2 Bt.P,P 
to K Kt 4,29 P to K B 4. 

(F) A gross mistake, which loses 
the game right of. P to K B4 
was the proper move, but even then 
Black would retain a slight advan- 
tuge, although the opponent could 
force an exchange, which would 
leave Bishops of opposite colours, 
eqg.: 29 P to K B4, Bto K Kt 2, 
30 Kt to BS, KR to Q 6,31 K to 
K 2 (or 31 Kt to K Sch, Bt. Kt, 
et Ptob, Pto BS, 33 Pto K 6 
ch, K to K sq, 34 Bto B sq, R to 
R 6, &.), 51....P to BS, 32 
Kt to Q 4, 52....Bto K 45, with 
w superior game, for Black has 
time to bring his K to the Q wing, 
while White K is cut off, and his 
R cannot oppose at Q sy on account, 
of B t. Kt, followed by B to B 
6 ch. 

(G) Of course if B t. B, Black 
first captures the Kt checking. 

(I) Evidently all the three 
Pawns on the K side will be lost 
ina few moves. If P to K B 4, 
Black takes that DP, followed by R 
to B 6 ch, 

. 

Game 34, played on the 9th of June. 

QUEEN'S GAMBIT it DFUSED. 

White. Black. 
W. Sreisitz. J. Morrimen. 
PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
2PtoQB4 P to K 3 
3 Q Ktto BS Kt to K B3 
4KtitoKB3 PtwQpb4 

Kt ta BS 
Bto O38 

Kt to K 2 (B) 
Bt. P 

White. Black. 
9 QKttoR4 PteQKt3(C) 
10 Kit. B Pt. Kt 
11 PtoQKt3 Kttokt3(D) 

12 Bto Kt 2 
13 RB to B sy 

Castles (EB) 
B to Kt 2 (F) 

PtP Qt. P 
15 QBt. Kt PLB 
16 Bt. Kt RPtB 
17 Qt.Q BQ 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’S GAMES, 89 

White. Black. 
18 RtP Bt. Kt 
Ww Pts KtokKt2(?)(G) 
20 Rito Q sq R to K BR sq 

(2) (Hl) 

21 Rw Q7 (1) K BR to Q sq 
22 OQRtoB7 Rt. R 
23 Rt. RK PtoK4 
24 R to B7 (J) PtoB4 
25 K to B sy K to B3 
26 K to K 2 K to K3 
27 RtoB6 ech K toQ 2 
28 RtiooK BG RK to K B sy 
29 PtoK R4(K) KtoK2 
30 RtoR6 R to QR sq 
31 Pto Kkt4 R to R sq (L) 
32 Rt. P ch K to K 3 
33 PtoR4 Rt. P 
34 Rto Kt 7 R to Q BS, 
35 PtoRS | Pto KS 
36 Pt. P PtP 
37 PtoR6(M) RKto B7 ch 
38 K to Bsq RtoR?7 
39 PtoR7 PtoB4 
40 Pto Kt 5 K to Q3 
41 P to Kt 6 P to Kt 4 
42 Rto Kt8 Resigns 

(A) White is loth to open the 
game for a minute advantage in 
position, and he trusts to future 
complications. Otherwise 5 P t. P, 
Bt. P(or5.... Pt. P,6Qt.Qch, 
followed by P to K 4), 6 Pt. P, P 
t. P, 7 P to K 3, &&., would be 
satisfactory enough as Black’s Q P 
is isolated, 

(B) Black in turn might by ex- 
changing the two Pawns have 
isolated the adverse Q P, but the 
freedum of action which White's Q 
B thereby obtains is sufficient com- 
pensation, especially for the first 
player. 

(C) Weak. The proper play was 
9....-PtP,10Bt. BP, BtoQ 
8, 11 B to Kt 5 ch, Ktto B 3, with 
an even game. 

(D) B to Kt 2, making room for 
BR to Q B sq, was better. 

(E) If now B to Kt 2 White 
would reply P t. P, followed by B 
to Kt 5 eh. 

(F) The isolated QB P was weak, 
but at any rate he ought to have 
made the struggle for its protection 
by 13.... Pt. P, 14 Bt. P,Q to 
K 4, 15 B to B 3, Q to Kt 3. 

(G@) K R to Q sq would have 
compelled the retreat of the other- 
Wise aggressive hostile R to B 2, 
and would bayo also prevented the 
opponent from seizing the impor- 
tant Q file. 

(H) Useless. Again K R to Q 
sy was tho proper move. 

(1) Inferior to R to B 7, equally 
threatening to double the Rooks on 
the seventh row, in which case 
Black evidently was bound to op- 
pose Rook at QB sy, and White 
by answering K R to Q 7 would 
gain a move, as will be seen. 

(J) White is now bound to waste 
this move in order to keep in reach 
of the fourth row, since Black would 
otherwise advance the RK P to R 5, 

(K) Threatening P to R 5. 

(L) K to B sq would have pro- 
longed the defence but could not 
save the game,eg.: 31.... KtoB 
sy, 32 P to Kt 5, R to Kt sq, 33 
P to R4, KR to Kt 2, 34 K to Q 

, ke, 

(M) The two passed Pawus are 

now irresistible. 

Iriginval from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

90 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 56, played on the 11th of June. 

THREE KNIGHTS’ 

White. Black. 
S. Rosenruat. W. Sree. 
1PtoK4 PtoK 4 
2 KttoK B3 Kt toQ B3 
3 KttoB3 P to K Kt 3 
4PtoQ4 PtP 
5 KttoQs B to Kt 2 
6 BtoK Kt 5 Q Kt to K 2 
7PtoK5(A) PtoK R38 
8 Bto R4(B) Pto K Kt 4 
9 Kt t. Kt Q t. Kt 
10 Bto Kt3 is hie 
(C) 
ll KttoQ2(D) PteoK R4(#) 
12 Pt KR3 Pio K B4 
13 Pt. P, ep. Kt t. P 
14 BtoQ3(F) IX to Q sq (G) 
15 Castles PtoQ3 
16 PtoK R4 P to Kt 5 
17 PtoQR3 QtoRS 
18 R to K sy Bto Q2 
19 Kite B4 Qto B3 
20 Q to K 2 (?) (H) R to K sq 
21 QtoQ2 QtoQ4 
22 Rt. R ch kt. RB 
23 Q to Kt 6 K to B sq 
24 Kt to Q 2 BtoB3 
25 PtoB3 Qt. Q 
26 Pt.Q Kt to Q4 
27 PtooK B4 R to K sq 
28 Pio BS B to K 4 
29 K to B 2 (u) Bt. B ch (1) 
30 Kt. B Rto K 6 ch 
31 KtoR4 Kt to B5 
32 Kt to Bsy Kto K 4 
33 Kt to Kt 3 B to K sq 
34 Bto K 4 (J) Pio Q4 
35 K to K B sy PtB(K 
36 Rt. Kt Pto Kk 6 
37 Pto Kt 6 PtoK7 
38 Ktt. P Rt. Kt 
39 K to Kt 5 (!)(L) Pto R5(?)(M) 
40 Rt. Kt P Rt. BP 
41 Rt. RP Rt. P. ch 
42 KtoB6 K to Kt sq 
43 Rt. P Rt. P 
44 KR toQ8 Rto K 7 
45 Rto BS P to QB4(N) 

GAME. 

White. Dlack. 
46 Rt. P (O) BtoB3 
47 RtoB3 R to Q7 
48 RtoR3 PtoR4 
49 K to K 7 (!) (P) B to K 5 (Q) 
5O Pto BG Bt P 
51 P to B7 ch Bt. P 
52 R to Kt d$ch(R) K to R 2 
53 Kt. B R to B 7 ch 
54 K to K 6 R to Q Kt 7 
55 R to Kt 4 K to R 3 (S) 
56 K to Qs K to R 4 
57 R to Kt sq K to R5 
d&8 K to Bd R to Kt 6 
59 PtoR4 R to Kt 5 
60 Rto Kt 8 KtoR 4 
G1 Rto Kt 7 P to Kt 3 ch 
62 K to B6 Rt. P 
63 Kt. P 

Drawn game. 

(A) This P is too far advanced 
and without. sufficient support. The 
lain Kt t. Q P, threatening Kt to 
xt 5, should give White a good 
game, 

(B) Very risky; but he is already 
under some disadvantage in position. 
If8 Bt. Kt, Kt t. B, 9 Qt. P (or 
9 Kt t. Kt, Qt Kt, 10 Qt. P, P to 
Q 3) (or 9 Kt to B6 ch, Bt. Kt, 
10 Pt. B, Kt to B 3),9 .... Kt 
to B 3,10 Q to K B 4, Castles, 11 
Kt to B 6 ch, K to R sq, 12 Kt to 
Kt 4 (or 12 Castles, Kt t. P), 12 
....P to K Kt 4, followed mostly 
by P to Q4 or P to Q 3. 

(C) Very weak. Either P to 
K b 3, or, perhaps better still, P 
to K B 4, pointed out by Mr. 
Zukertort, were vastly superior. 

(D) Well played. It was the 
only way to continue the attack. 
If 11 Q to Q2,Qt. P, 12 Qt. P, 
Qt. Q, 18 Kt t. Q, Kt to K 2, 14 
Kt to Kt 5, K to Q sq, and Black 
is a P ahead and will also soon 
gain the K P, 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STELNITZ’S GAMES. 0 | 

(£) This loosens the Pawns on 
the K side, and is at any rate in- 
consistent with his previous move. 
He ought to have taken the P at 
all hazards, and then endeavoured 
to bring his Q back to the K side 
as soon as possible. Two Pawns 
ahead ought then to have proved 
equivalent for his cramped posi- 
tion, which is certainly not much 
improved by the text move. 

(F) He could not take the P 
- with the B on account of the reply 
P to Q 3, threatening Q to B4as 
well as K to Q 2 in answer to Q to 
K 2 cb. 

(G) Unnecessary: Castling was 
sound enough. 

(H) Loss of time. Q to Q 2 at 

once was preferable. 

(I) Not so clear and decisive as 
Kt to B 5, eg.: 29.... Kt te BS, 
30 Kt to K 4(or 30 B to K 4, P to 
Q 4, 31 BtoQ 3, Bto Q 2, 82 Pto 
B 6, P to B 4), 30.... Ktt. P, 
31K t. Kt, B t. B, 32 Kt. B, Bt. 
Kt, &e. 

(J) Best, for if 34 P to Kt 6, 
Bt. P, and if 34 R to K Kt sq, R 
to K 8. 

(K) Which makes the game very 
difficult. The simplest plan was 
$5... 8 t B, 36 Kt t. RB, Kt t. 
P ch, 37 K to Kt 3, Kt to K 6, 38 
Kt to Q 2, Kt t. R ch. 

(L) An exceedingly clover move, 
which proved extremely difficult to 
answer in actual play. 

(M) Uselessly throwing away 
the Pawns on the K side. He 
could win without great difficulty 
thus: 39.... Rto K 4, 40 K to 
R 6 (or 49 Rt. P, K to Kt 2 
threatening B t. P, 41 K to B4, 
K to B 3, &c.), (or 40 Kt. P, K to 
Kt 2), (or 40 K to B 6, R to Q 4), 
40....PtoB4, 41 Pt B6, B 
to B 2, and Black ought to win both 
Pawns for the piece and remain 

with two Pawus ahead. White has 
then hardly any chance of winniug 
in the adverse game, while Black 
threatens to return with the R to 
K 7 and gain the Pawns. 

(N) If 45.... PwQB 3, 46 
RtoB7,Pto kt 4,47 Rt PLR 
to K 6,48 RK to Kt 7 ch, K to B 
sy, 49 R to K RK 7, K to Kt sy (or 
49.,...BtP,50 Kt. B),50 Rto 
Kt 7 ch, and draws. 

(O) White could also draw in 
the above indicated way by RK to B 
7. The move actually made seems 
to have been also good enough for 
that purpose and yet to have re- 
served winning chances in case of 
a mistake of the opponent. Alto- 
gether M. Rosenthal has played 
the ending wonderfully well, and 
brought about a position in which 
the adversary, though a_ piece 
ahead, has, so to speak, no King 
for practical purposes. 

(P) Very fine play. 

(Q) If B to Q 2, White could 
still advance P to B 6 and even 
win. 

(R) All this is excellent play, 
and equality of forces is ucarly 
restored. 

(8) Black makes now some futile 
attempts at winning with his extra 
P, but owing to the correct play of 
his opponent Black’s K cannot 
cross in time to support the nume- 
rical superiority. 

(a) M. Rosenthal, in his notes to 
this game in Le Vie Moder, 
attributes this weak move to pres- 
sure of time. He considers that he 
ought to have played 29 B t. B, R 
t. Bf Pt. B, 30 Kt to K 4), 30 
Kt to Q B 4, followed by 31 K to 
B 2, and R to K sq, with a good 
game, 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

LONDON CHESS 

TOURNAMENT, 

Game 56, played on the 12th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
W. Sreiyrrz. J. Mason. 
1PtoK 4 PiwK3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3’ KttoQB3 Ktto K B3 
4 BtoK Kt5 Bto K2 
5 Bt. Kt Bt. B 
6 Ktto B3 Castles 
7 BwQ3 PteQKts(A) 
8 P to K 5(B) Bto K 2 
9 Kt to K 2 PtoQB4 
10 Pto BS Bto R3 
1l BL B Kt t. B 
12 Castles Q to Q 2 
13 Kt to K sq PtoB4 
14 Pt. P, ep. Bt. P(C) 
15 PtooK BA Bto K 2 
16 Kt to B3 Bto Q3 
17 Pto K Kt3(D) Ktto B2 
18 QtoB2 Kt to K sq 
19 Kto Kt2 Ktto BS 
20 Kt(K 2)to Kt sq Q R to Q Bsq 
21 Ktto R38 PtoK R3 
22 KitoB2(E) PtP 
23 Ktt. P BtoB4 
24 Q Rto Q sy Bt. Kt 
25 Kt. B Q to Q3 
26 Qto K 2 Q R to K sq 
27 K to K sq Kt to Q2 
28 KtteQ3 KttoKts (1) 
29 KttoK 5 Kt to B3 
30 Kt t. Kt Q t. Kt 
31 QwWQB2 RtoB3 
32 Q to R4(G) Qt. Q 
33 Kt. Q Rto K 2 
34 RtoR6 R to B sy 
35 PtoQK4 KtoB2 
36 K to B 3 (1) R to Q Kt sy 
(1) (D 
37 RtoK 5 KtoB3 
38 PtoK R4 R(K2)toKt2 
39 K to K 3 R (Kt) toQB 
40 K to Q 2 RtoB5 
Drawn game. (J) 

(A) P to Q B 4 is here the 
strongest move to equalise the 
game at once, for White cannot 

well capture the Q B P on account 
of the rejoinder B t. Kt ch, fol- 
lowed by Q to R 4, 

(8) P to K BR 4 introduced since 
successfully in a most brilliant 
game by Beck Fritz in the Nurem- 
berg Tournament against the same 
opponent did not escape my atten- 
tion, but I thought it rather an 
indifferent move, which probably 
would somewhat affect the option 
of castling on the K side if Black 
replied B to R 3, in which case the 
main point of this attack, viz., the 
sacrifice of the B for the K R P, is 
altogether broken and Black ob- 
tains some advantage in position, 
eg: 8 PtoR4, Bto RS (not B 
to Kt 2, as played by Mr. Mason 
against Herr Fritz), 9 P to K 5, B 
t. B, lO Qt Bor ld Pt. B, Bt. 
P), 10....Bto K2, 11 K Kt to 
Kt 5, P to K Kt 3,12 Pto K B 4, 
PtoQB4, 13 Kt to K 2, Kt to B 
3, followed by R to Q B sy, &e. 

(C) It was much preferable to 
retake with the Kt P, for he had 
then better prospeets of getting md 
of his weak K P by advancing it 
to K 4 alter due preparations with 
B to Q 3 and Q KR to K sq. 

(D) Q to Q 3 was better. If 
Black then advaneed the B P White 
would reply Q to K 3 with the ob- 
ject of planting Kt or Q at K 5 by 
Kt to K 5. If, however, Black 
withdrew the Kt instead to B 2, 
the reply Kt to Kt 5 would compel 
the advance of P to K Kt 3 and 
weaken Black’s Pawns-on the K 
wing. 

(BE) [i was important not to let 
Black’s Kt enter the K centre. 

(F) An excellent move for draw- 
ing purposes, und nothing better 
could be expected from his game 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’S GAMRS. 98 

on account of the weakness of his 
K P. 

(G) There seems to have been 
no opening for White’s game at 
any point, and the chances of an 
attack were very remote. But on the 
other hand Black was also reduced 
to inactivity, and it might have been 
worth while to play R to K 5, fol- 
lowed by P to K R 4, which would 
effectually stop the advance of the 
K Kt P and thus allow the White 
K to cross over to the other side. 

(H) Loss of time. It would have 
been only consistent with the pre- 

vious tactics of his R to advance 
the RP to the Sth, but although 
no more than a draw could be ex- 
pected even in that case, he would 
at any rate liberate his R, which is 
now shut out by Black’s excellent 
reply. 

(1) A very good move, which pre- 
vents P to Q R 5, and, therefore, 
keeps White's R at R 6 quite out 
of play. 

(J) The probable continuation 
would have been 4] P to Kt3, R to 
B 4, 42 P to B 4, R (Kt 2) to B 2, 
43K toB3, Pt. P, 4 Rt. R, R 
t. R, 45 P t. P, &e. 

Game 57, played on the 13th of June. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White Black. White. Black. 

W. Sreisirz S. RosENTHAL. 27 KttoR4 KttoR4 

1PtoK4 PtoK 4 28 Kt to B5 Kt t. P (1) 

2K KttoBs Q Kt to BS 29 Ktt. KR Rt. Kt 

3 Bto Kt 5 Kt te B3 30 BtoB4(?) (J) KttoK5(!)(K) 

4PwQ3 B to B 4(A) 31 Rt. Kt (L) Pt. R(M) 

5 PtoB3 Q to K 2 (B) 32 Bt. B P4. F 

6 Castles Castles 33 RtoKsq(N) RtoKt3 ch 

7PtoQ4 B to Kt 3 34 Bto Kt3 Rt. Beh(!)(O) 

8 Bt. Kt (C) Kt P t. B(D) 35 Pt. KR P to B7 ch (!) 

9 Kit. P PtoQ3 36 Kt. P Mate in two 
10 Ktt. P Qt. P moves. 
ia = rs =a : a =. (A) Not recommended a the 
13 Rto K sq QtoR5 authorities, but apparently adopted 
14 PtoB3 PtoQ4 here designedly for the purpose of 
I RtoK5(E) PtP instituting an uncommon counter- 
16 PtP Kt to Q2 attack. The usual move here is P 
17 Pto K Kt3(F) QtoRG to Q 3. 
18 RtoKsq (G) Q Rto K sq (B) This is a novelty which de- 
19 Bto K3 Ri to us serves special attention 
ay = a soph K sq (C) Better than P to Q 5, in 
22 QtoQ2 Bto B5 which case Black could well retreat 
23 Pto Kt 3 BtoR4 the Kt to Kt sq. 
24 Kt to B2 BtR3 (D) Best. If Q P took B the 
25 PtoQ Kt4 Bto B2 game might have proceeded thus : 
26 P to Ktd B to Kt 2 (H) 8....Q Pt. B, 9 Kt t. P, Ktt. 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

94 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

P, 10 R to K sy, Bto B 4 or P to 
K B 4, 11 Kt to Q 2, with an 
excellent game. 

(£2) Loss of time, as the next two 
excellent moves of the opponent 
show. 

(F) If17 Rt. P, BtoB2,18P 
to B 4 (best), for in answer to P to 
K Kt 3, Black would sacrifice the 
B and capture the P, followed by 
B to Kt 2, with a winning attack. 
18.... Kt to B3, witha very good 
game. 

(G) Ifnow 18 Rt. P,K Rto K 
sq, 19 Kt to B 3, B to Kt 2, 20 R 
toQ Kt 5 (or 20 R to Q 6,B to 
B2) (or 20 R to K Kt 5, PtoKR 
3,21 Rto Kt 4, Ktto K4),20.... 
B to B 3,21 R to Kt 3, Kt to K 4. 

(H) B to B sq was much better. 
If 26 B to Q R 4, White could not 
capture the B on account of the 
answer, R to B 3, but he would 
move his Q R to Kt sq, followed 
by Kt to Kt 4, should Black again 
attack with R to Q B sq. 

haw An unsound sacrifice if White 
played properly. 

(J) An error which costs the 
game. Pt. Kt instead would have 
=a easily, e.g.: 30P t. Kt, Bt, 

thee Q to Kt 2, BtoR7 ch (or 
.Q to RB 5, 32 B to Q 2, and 
pa win), 32 K to B sq, Ke. 

(KK) A beautiful rejoinder, which 
turns the tables. 

(L) This makes matters still 
worse. The best defence now was 
Q to Kt 2, which might have led 
to the following continuation: 351 
Q to Kt 2, R to Kt 3,52 B to Kt 
3, Qt. Q ch, 33 K t. Q, B t. B, 34 
Pt. B, Rt. P ch, 35 K to R2,R 
t. P, 36 Kt to Kt 4, followed soon 
by R to Q B sq. 

(M) Beautiful play. ‘Though 
White now gains a piece the line of 
attack in the text was much 
stronger and finer than recovering 
a clear R by R to Kt 3ch, in which 
case White would have interposed 
the B at Kt 3, followed by Q to K 
Kt 2, in reply to P t. R, witha 
well defensible game. 

(N) Fatal. But Q to B 2 was 
not much better, ¢.7.: 33 Q to B 2 
R to Kt 3 ch (not R to K 7(?), i in 
which case White could reply R to 
K sq [!]), 34 Bto Kt 3, PtoK R 
4,35 Kt to K 3,P to RB 5, 36 Kt 
to B sq, P t. B, 37 Pt. P (or 37 
Kt t. P, P to K B 4), 87.... Rto. 
R 3, 38 Kt to R2, if Q to R 2, 
Black answers P to B7 ch, winning 
at least a piece, 38.... Rto K 3, 
with a winning attack. 

(O) M. Rosenthal now finishes 
off with a few elegant strokes, which 
deserve the special prize for bril- 
liancvy awarded to this game. 

~— +e 

Game 58, played on the 14th of Juue. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
W. Srernitz. Da. Noa, 
1PtoK4 P to K 3 
to K 5 P toQ4 

Pt. oe (A) Bt. P 

¥ 

PtoQ+ KttoK B38 
Kt to KB3(B) PtoQ Kt 3 
B to Kt 5ch(C) BtoQ2 
Bio Qs Castles 

IQ Ore co DS 

White. Black. 
8 Castles Kt to B3 
9 Rto K sq K to K sq 
10 KttoB3 PtoK 4 
ll Pt. P(D) Ktt. P 
12 Kt t. Kt 

Rt. Kt 
13 Rt. BR Bt.R 

14 Bto K Kt5(E) Bto B 3 (P) 
15 BtoK B sy Q to K 2 (a) 

Original from 

PRIN CETON UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’8 GAMES. 95 

White. Black. 
16 KttoQ5(H) Bt. Kt 
17 Bt. Kt Qt. B 
18 Qt. B R to Q sq 
19 Qto K 4 Bt. P 
20 R to K sq B to R6 
21 Bo Qs. P to Kt 3 
22 QtoK 5 

Drawn game 

(A) If the advance of the Black's 
Q P remains unchallenged the con- 
tinuation 3....P to Q B 4 pro- 
duces one of La Bourdonnais’s 
original positions rather in favour 
of the defence. It is one of the 
objects of White's second move to 
clear for himself the K file by 
taking in passing either of the two 
adverse Pawns that come in the 
way, without, however, allowing the 
hostile K P to be exchanged, as it 
is part of White’s plan that the 
latter should be retained in order 
to keep Black’s Q B shut in as long 
as possible. The effect of this form 
of attack is also generally that 
White obtains unopposed ses- 
sion of the K file with his R after 
castling. 

(B) P to K B 4,as adopted in 
my matches with Messrs. Martinez 
and Golmayo, is the strongest con- 
tinuation. 

(C) In order to prevent the ad- 
verse Q B from occupying the post 
at Kt 2 with a long range against 
the K side. 

(D) Which dissolves the game 

»- 

rather in Black’s favour. P to Q 
5 was much superior, and the fol- 
lowing was a likely continuation ; 
11 P to Q5, Kt to Q 5, 12 B to K 
Kt 5, B to K Kt 5, 13 B to K 4, P 
toK R3,14Bt. Kt, Qt. B,15Q 
toQ 3, Bt. Kt, 16 Bt. B, Ktt. B 
ch, 17 Qt. Kt, Qt. Q, 18 Pt. Q, 
Bto Kt 5, 19RtoK 3,QRtoQ 
sj, 20 R to Q sq, and in spite of 
the doubled P on the K side White 
has somewhat the best of the game 
on account of his majority on the 

Q side. 

(E) If 14B to Q 2, Kt to Kt 5, 
15 Pto K R3, Q to R 5, with a 
strong attack, for White dare not 
take the Kt on account 16.... 
Q to R7 ch, 17 K moves, Q to R 
8 ch, 18 K moves, Bt. P ch, 19 P 
to B38, Qt. Pech, 20 K to K 3, R 
to K sq. 

(P) If 14.... Bt. Kt, 15 P t. 
B, B to B 3, 16 Bto K B sq, Qt. 
Q, 17 Rt. Q, Kt to K 5, 18 RtoQ 
€ ch, Rt. R, 19 Bt R, Kt t. P, 20 
Bt. P, Kt t. P, 21 Bto Kt 8, P to 
QR 4, 22 BtoB 7, &. 

(G) If B t. Kt the last given 
variation would probably arise by 
transposition of moves. 

(H) White has an uncomfort- 
able game and decides, therefore, 
to sacrifice a P in order to remain 
with Bishops of opposite colours, 
which would greatly facilitate his 
drawing without much waste of 
time and labour. 

- —ese——— 

Game 59, played on the 16th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 

W, Srerntrz. J. H. Bracksvryg, 
1PtoK 4 Pto K 8 
2PtoK 5 P toQ Kt 3(A) 
5 PtoKB4 B to Kt 2 
4K KttoB3 PtoKB8 

White. Black. 

5 PtoQ4 Kt to K R38 
6 BtoQ3(B) PtoK B4(c) 
7 Castles Bto K 2(D) 
8 PtoB4 P to B 4 (B) 
9 PtQs PtP 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

96 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 

10 Pt.P Bt. P 

11 Bt. P B to Kt 2 (F) 

12 Bte Q3 Castles (G) 

13 QtoB2 Kt to B3 (H) 

14 Bt. P ch K to R sq 

15 B to Kt 6 PtoQ4 

16 Kt to B3 Pto BS 

17 QtoK2 BtoB4ch 

18 KtoR B to B sq 

19 KttoK Kt5 BtoK Kt5 

20 Qto K sq Kt to K 2 

21 BtoB2 Q to K sq 

22 Bto Q2 Q to R 4 (I) 

23 KttoR 4 QKttoB4 

24 Ktt. B Pt. Kt 

25 PtoK 6 QR to K sq 

26 Bto Q sq R to K 2 

27 Bio K B38 Kt to Q5 

28 Qto K 5(?) (J) Ktt. B 

29 Pt. Kt Bt. K P 

30 Q Rto K sq K RB to K sq 
(?) (K) 

31 Ktt. B Qt. Q 

82 Rt. Q Kit. Kt 

33 Rt. P RtoK B38 

34 RtoK Ktsq KttoB4é 

85 Bio B38 Kt to Q5 

86 Rt. BP Rt.P 

37 Rt. BP Kt to K 7 (L) 

38 BLR Kt t. QR 
(at B 4) 

39 Rt. P Rtok 8 ch(M) 

40 Rto Ktsq dis.ch Resigns. 

(A) Not as good as either P to 
Q4orPto K BS, 

(B) If Pt. P, Black would pro- 
bably retake with the P, followed 
by Kt to B 2. 

(C) White threatened now P t. 
P, whereupon Black could not well 
retake with the P on account of 
the rejoinder, P to B 5, which 
would give White a strong attack. 

(D) P to QB4, which practically 
forced the reply, P to Q B 3, was 
better for defensive purposes, as it 
was essential to hinder White's 
advance of P to Q B 4. 

(FE) Too late now, for he can 
only break the Q centre at great 
loss of position on the K side. 

(F) If1l.... Bt Kt, 12 Qt. 
B, Kt to B3,13 B to K 4, followed 
by P to K 6. 

(G) Probably best. If 12.... 
P to Kt 3,13 P to B 5, Kt t. P 
(best), 14 B t. Kt, P t. B, 15 Kt to 
Kt 5, with a strong attack, for he 
threatens Q to R 5 with or without 
check. 

(H) The P was not to be saved, 
for if Pto K Kt 3, White could 
take it off with the Band win two 
Pawns. 

(T) Black’s demonstration on the 
K side calls only for ordinary pre- 
cautions, but the attack was his 
best chance, and, in reality, it 
nearly succeeded in neutralising 
his inferiority of forces. 

(J) Bad play, and nearly throwing 
away the victory, which was easy 
enough after 28 Bt. P, Kt to B 7, 
29 Q to K 5, Kt t. R, 30 R t. Kt, 
and White must win at least a 
third P for the exchange, and re- 
main besides with two well-posted 
Bishops and a prospective strong 
attack against the K side by B to 
QB 3. 

(K) Missing the proper line of 
defence, which was Kt to B 2, for 
if White took that Kt checking, 
the Q would retake, and under any 
cireumstances Black had the option 
of exchanging Knights next move 
and remaining with Bishops of op- 

osite colours and superior Pawns 
in the centre. 

(L) If R to Q sq White would 
win a piece by R to Q sq. 

(M) The R could only be saved 
hy 39....Rto K Bq, and then 
followed by 40 Rt. P dis. ch, K to Kt 
sq, 41 R to Kt 7 ch, K to R sq, 42 
P to Q RA, White ean choose his 
time for exchanging Rooks. 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’8 GAMES. 07 

Game 60, played on the 16th of June. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. Black took the Pawn he had good 

Dr. Noa. W. Sterne. prospects of recovering it, eg.: 
1PtiK4 PtoK4 12Qto.Q sq, Pt. P (or 12.... 
» Kt to K B3 Kit QB3 BS t.:.F; 13 Bt. B, P t. B, 14.Q to 
3 Bto Kts PtoQR3 R 4), 13 B to R 4, B to Q 2 (or 13 
4BtoR4 K Kt te K 2 .+2-Q toQ 2, 14 Kt to R 3), 14 
5 PtoQ4 PtP Kt to R 3, Kt to K 4, 15 Castles, 
6 Ktt.P Kt t. Kt followed by R to Q B sq, or P to K 
7 Qt. Kt P toQ Kt4 B 4. . 
8 Bto Kt3 PtoQ3 (D) Having once committed the 

9 PtoQB4(?)(A) Bto K 3 

10 Bto Kt5(?)(B) PtoR3 

ll BtoK3 Kt to B3 

12 Qto B3(?)(C) PtoQ4(!) 

13 BPt. P(D) BtoQ Kt5 

14 Pt. B PtP 

15 Bt. P Q to B 3 (EB) 

16 BtoQs Castles 

17 Castles Bt. Q 

18 Ktt. B Kt to K 2 

1? B to Kt 3 Pto B38 

20 QRtoQBsq K to Kt 2(F) 

21 PtoB4 Q to Q 3(P KG) 

22 P to K 5 (H) Q to Kt 5 

23 PtoBd Kt to B sq 

24 RtoB4é () to K 2 

25 BtoK 6 R to Q6 

26 K to B 2 (I) Rt B 

27 Kt.R Q to B4 ch 

28 KtoK 4 Q to Kt 5 ch 

29 KtoK 3 Qt. P 

30 K R to B sq R to Q sq 

3L Bt. Ktch (7?) (J) Kt. B 

32 P to B 6(K) Q to Q7 ch 

33 K to K 4 Qto Qé6ech 

34 K to B4 R to Q5 ch 
Resigns 

(A) P to QB 3 is much prefer- 
able. 

(B) Alost move. He overlooked, 
probably, that if he exchanged 
Black could. retake the B with the 
B, followed by B to B 3, if then 
Q t. Kt P 

(C) A palpable error. Q to Q 

sj was his best move, for if then 

blunder, the sacrifice of the Q for two 
minor pieces and a P gave him un- 
questionably a much better chance 
of retrieving his fortunes than 
allowing the loss of a clear Pawn 
insuch a compact position as Black 
would obtain by Pt. BP. Dr, Noa's 
fine judgment in the choie¢e of evils 
is borne out by the progress of the 
game. 

(E) 15.... Kt to Q5, 16 Bt. 
Kt best (or 16 Qt. B, Kt to B7 
ch), 16 8 ee Q t B, 17 Castles, B 
t. Q, was much superior. 

(F) White threatened Kt to Q 5, 

(G) Aweak move. Kt to Bag at 
once was much better, 

(H) It was better to prevent the 
entrance of the Q by P to Q R 3. 

(1) Injudicious, White had still 
a good game with his two Pawns 
majority on the K side, which were 
likely to become powerful in the 
end, while Black’s majority of 
Pawns on the other wing could not 
easily be made available. Nor had 
Black's Q much scope for offensive 
action if he had not allowed the 
sacrifice of the exchange at least in 
the present position. He ought to 
have retreated the B to B 2. If 
then Black answered R to Q 7, 
White could enter with the Kt at 
K 4, threatening Kt to B 5 ch, fol- 
lowed hy P to B 6, or if Black 
doubled the Reoks the reply P to 

" 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

98 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

K R83 would enable White to make 
a long fight of it even if Black ad- 
vanced P to Kt 4, followed by R to 
Q 8 ch and exchanging one of the 
Rooks, 

(J) This does not help him much, 

(K) Desperate, but he had no 
means of averting defeat. Mate 
could be prevented by Kt to K 2, 
whereupon, however, Black would 
capture the K P, checking, and win 
with ease. 

—~1o-— 

Gane #1, played on the 18th of June. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. 

W. Sreryitz. G, H. Mackeyzre 
1PtK4 PtoK 4 

2 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 
3 Bto Kt 5 PtoQR3 
4BtoR4 Kt to B83 

5 PtoQ3 Bt B4 

6 PtoB3 Castles (A) 
7 Bt. Kt Kt Pt. B 

8 Ktt. P PtoQ4 

9 PtoQ4 B to Kt 3 (B) 
10 Kt t. P Q to K sq 
ll Ktto K 5 Ktt. P 
12 Castles PtoK B3 
13 Kt to Q3 Bto Q2 
14 Rto K sq QtoK B2 
15 PtoK B38 Kt toQ3 
16 Bto B4 Kt to B 4 
17 KttoQ2 QR to K sq 
18 Kt to K Bsq P to Kt 4 
19 Bto Kt 3 Pto K R4(C) 
20 Kt te B5 Bto Kt 4 
21 QtoB2 Kt to Kt 2 (D) 
Ae Leda h Q Bt. Kt 
23 Kt PtoK R5 
rife fete Bt. Kt (F) 
25 Pt.B PtoQB3 
26 QtoQ3 R to Q R sq 
27 Pto Q Kt 4 Kt to K 8 
28 Pto K Kkt3 PtP 
29 Pt. P K to Kt 2 
30 QtoK B QRto Ks 

33 RtoQR6 Kt toQ B2 
34 Rt. R (!) Qt. R (H) 
35 RtoQR7 oe) 
36 P to B 6 (1) 

37 BtoQ4 K toB sq 

White. Black. 
38 Qt. Kt6() KteK2 
39 Bto BS ch K te K 3 (J) 
40 P to Kt 4 R to B sq 
41 Qto Bb ch K to B2 
42 QtoR7 ch Resigns. 

(A) Captain Mackenzie stated to 
me afterwards that he gave up the 
P here and also made his preceding 
move under the mistaken notion 
that he was following the lines of 
defence adopted by Anderssen in a 
celebrated game played against 
Neumann in which, however, Black’s 
Q BR P had not been advanced to R 
3. This makes now all the differ- 
ence, and White may safely gain 
the P, for the main’ point of the 
counter attack instituted by An- 
derssen was the subsequent sally 
of the Q@ B at Q R 3, preventing 
White's castling, which is now im. 
possible, 

(B) Iff.... Ktt. P, 10 Pt, B, 
KR to K sq, 11 QtQ4, Pio B3, 
12 Ktto B 3, Kt to Kt6 dis. ch, 13 
B to K 3, Kt t. R, 14Q Kt to Q 2, 
followed by castling, and White 
will gain two minor pieces for the R. 

(C) The advance of the Pawns 
on the K side weakens his position 
on this wing, and as he is already 
a Pawn minus on the Q side his 
game becomes altogether compro- 
mised for the ending. 

(D) If 21....QBt. Kt, 22Q 
t. Kt, B to Kt 4,23 PtoQR4,B 

riginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

STEINITZ’S GAMES. 99 

to B3 (or 23.... Bt. Kt, 24 RP 
t. B), 24 Kt t. R P, &e. 

(E) P to K R 4 first was much 
stronger. 

(F) P to Q R 4 would have pro- 
bably furnished a better defence 
than this exchange, which leaves 
the Q side bare. 

(G) The freedom which White 
obtains for the otherwise invctive 
Q KR seems to have been quite 
worth the sacrifice of a P. 

(H) 1f34....Ktt. K R,35 Bto 
Q 4 (threatening Q t. Kt P ch), 
35.... K to Kt sq (or 35....Q 
to Kt 3, 37 R to R 7 ch, R to B 2, 
38 Rt. Rech, Kt. R, 39Qt.QP 
ch), 36 R to K 6, Q to R 2 (or 36 

....Ktto Kt 2, 37 Qt. B P, and 
Black dare not take the R with 
either piece), 38 Q t. Qch, Kt. Q, 39 
PtoB6. Had the Kt taken the 
other R the game would have pro- 
ceeded thus: 35 R to K 6, Kt to 
B 2, 36 Rt. P,Q t. R, 37 BtoQ 4, 
Q t. B, 38 Q t. Kt P ch. 

(I) If 35.... Q to B3, 36 B to 
Q4, K to R 3 (there is no other 
way of saving the Kt P),37 B to K 
5 and wins. Again: if 35..,..R 
to B 2, 36 B to Q 4, K to B sq, 37 
Kt. Kt, Rt. R, 38 Qt. P ch, Q to 
B2 or 88....R to B 2, 39 Q to 
R 6ch and mates next move), 39 Q 
to Q 8 ch, and wins. 

(J) Black is absolutely without 
resource. 

— 

Game 62, played on the 19th of June, 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

et 

White. Black. 

J. Mason. W. Srecsrrz. 
1PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
2BtoB4 PtoQB4(A) 
3 Pt. P (B) Kt toQB3 
4KttoK B3 P to B3 (C) 
5 Pt K3 PtooK4 
6 Bto Kt 3 Bt. P 
7 PtoB3 K Kt to K 2 
8 QKttoQ2 Bto Kt 3 
9 Bto K 2 Castles (D) 

0 Castles Kt to B4 
1PtoK4 Kt t. B 
2RPt. Kt P to Q 5 (B) 
3Pt P N Toit J og 

14 BtoB4 ch K to R sq 
15 Kt to Kt 3 Bto K Kt 5 
16 Bto Q 4 (F) KttoK4(!)(G) 
17 Bt. P BR to Q Kt sq 
18 BtoQ5 P to B4(!) 
19 Q Kt to Q2(H) PtoBd5 

20 Q to RK 4 Kt t. Kt ch 
21 Kt t. Kt (1) Fu2.P 

22 Pt. P Q to Q3(!)(I) 
23 KttoR2(K) PtoQ6édis.ch 

White. Black. 
24 K to R sq BtoK 7 
25 Rt.-R ch Rt.R 
26 B to Kt 3 (L) t.P 
27 QtoQ7(M) PtQ7() 
28 Qt.QP Bto B2(!)(N) 
29 PtoK 5 Qt. P 
30 Kt toB3 Rt. Kt (!) 
Resigns. a) 

(A) A novelty, which seems to 
break the force of this once so much 
dreaded attack, that Morphy, as 
stated in Lowenthal’s Morphy Book, 
avoided it against Harrwitz by 1 
..++ Pto K B 4, in reply to P to 
Q 4, after having twice failed with 
the ordinary defence. 

(B) Bad. But Black’s game 
seems also sound if White should 
now capture the Kt, e.g.: 3 Bt. Kt, 
Rt. B, 4 P t. P, QtoR4ch, 5 
Kt to B3, PtoK 3, 6 Pto K 4, 
Bt. P, 7 BtoKt 5 ch, K to B sq, 
8 Pt. P,Q to Kt 3, &e. 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

100 LONDON CIESS TOURNAMENT. 

(C) This secures for Black the 
establishment of the centre with an 
excellent game. 

(D) Kt to K B 4 would have 
been premature, as White could 
answer Kt to K R 4. 

(E) This P becomes isolated, but 
can be well supported. There was 
anyhow not much risk, as the 
strength of White’s majority of 
Pawns on the K side is diminished 
by the Kt P being doubled. 

(F) He ought to have retreated 
the B to K 2 in order to play a 
defensive game. 

(GQ) The sacrifice of the P was 

quite sound. 

(H) White probably saw too late 
that he could not now take the QP 
on pain of his losing, thus: 19 Q 
Ktt. P, Pt. P, 20 Bt. K P, KB 
t. Q Kt, and White dare not retake 
since Kt t. Kt ch would win the Q. 

(1) If P t. Kt Black obtains a 

werful attack by B to R 6, fol- 
owed by Q to Kt 4, 

(J) Stronger than P to Q6 ch at 
once, for in that ease White might 
move the K to R 2, followed ac- 
cordingly hy Q to B 6 or Kt to 
Kt 4, 

(K) If now K to R 2 Black 
checks at R 3, followed, should the 
Kt interpose, by B to B 2, threat- 
ening Q t. Kt ch. 

(L) In order to stop the last ad- 
vance of the Q P. 

(M) If Qto Kt 4, then followed : 
27 .... RtoB?7, 28 R to K Kt 
sq, BtoB 8, 29 Kt t. B, Rt. Kt, 
and wins. With the move in the 
text White intends to a the QP 
or to retreat the Q to K R 3. 

(N) Better now than R to B 7, 
for in reply to Black afterwards 
withdrawing the B ta B 8, White 
could sacrifice the Q for the R. 

(a) This and the preceding game 
are played in Mr. Steinitz’s best 
style, and show that he was, towards 
the close of the Tournament, re- 
covering from the bad form which 
he exhibited in the earlier portion, 
when his play was often not worthy 
of his reputation. Dr. Zukertort 
at present holds the honoured post 
of champion, but only a mateh can 
settle the position of these rival 
monarchs of the Chess realm. 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

SECTION III. 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 

THE NOTES IN THIS SECTION ARE BY H. E. BIRD, EXCEPT WHERE 

OTHERWISE STATED, 

Jriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ss Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

( 

103 

) 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 

——~>—_——_ 

Game 63, played on the 26th of April. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. 

White. Black. 
24 K to B2 QR to K sq 
25 KKttoKt3 Bto Kt3 
26 Kt to Kt sq PtoB3 
27 Rt R Rt RK 
28 R to K sq K to B2 
29 Kt to B sq 

Drawn game. (B) 

(A) Mr. Sellman’s play greatly va- 
ries, at times being quite first-class, 
whilst on occasions he appears to 
play listlessly, making singular slips 
in quite simple positions, yet in 
very difficult ones he has more than 
once proved himself equal to cope 
with the very best play. It may 
be observed, however, that the 
Baltimore gentleman has been 
more or less in indifferent health 
throughout the Tournament. He 
is a most amiable player, a capital 
loser, and a general favourite, 

(B) Black maintains his ground 
well throughout. 

os 

Game 64, played on the 2nd of May. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. 

J. H BLacksvene. A. G. Serta. 
1PtoK 4 P to K 3 (A) 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 KtteoQBs KttoK B3 
4PtP Pt. P 
5 BtoQ3 BtoQ3 
6 Kt toB3 BtoK3 
7 Castles KttoB3 
8 Rto Ksq Castles 
9 Bto K Kt i Pto K R38 
10 BtoK 3 Q to Q 2 
ll QtoQ2 Kt to Q KL 5 
12 Kt to K5 Q to K2 
18 PtoQR38 Ktt. B 
14 Kt t. Kt PtoB3s 
15 BtoB4 K R to K sq 
16 PtoB3 Kt toQ 2 
17 QtoB2 Kt to B sq 
18 Q to Kt3 Bt. B 
19 Kt t. B QtioBs 
20 Q Kt to K 2 B to B 4 
21 PtoB3 Rto K2 
22 KttoR5 Q to Kt 4 
23 Qt.Q *PtQ 

White. Black. 
A. G. SELLMAN. J. H. Buack scene. 
1PtoQ4 PwKkK3 
2PtoQB4 K Kt to B3 
3 Q Kt to Bs PtoQ4 
4 Bto Kt 5 B to K 2 
5 PtoK 3 Castles 
6 QtoK B3(!)(A) PtoB3 
7 Bt Q3 PtoK R3 

White. Black. 
8BtoR4(B) PtP 
9 Bt. P Kt toQ4 
10 Bt. B t. B 
IKkKttoK2 KttoQ2 
12 Castles, K R(C) Kt fr. Q 2 to 
B3 
13 KttoB4 Kt t. Kt (B 4) 
14 Qt. Kt Kt to Q 4 

Iniginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

LONDON CUEss TOULNAMENT, 

While. Black. 
52 K teu RG PtoRS 
53 Kto K 6 PtoR6 
54 Pto BG PtoR7 
55 Rte K 7 ch K to Q sq 
Resigus. 

(A) This appears somewhat ori- 
ginal, yet free from objection, As 
w rule, venturing with the Queen 
vut carly in the game is not advis- 
able, but in the present instance I 
incline to think it is a good move. 

(B) Leannot see the object for 
retiring this Bishop, Pto K R4 
supporting it would have been a 
most desirable move, Black could 
not safely capture the Bishop. 

(C) I should have felt inclined to 
Castle on Q side. 

(D) Weak play, I believe. White, 
after retiring his B to Q B 2, has 
an excellent position for organising 
an attack, 

(E) Not judicious play; the 
Pawns were strong as they stood ; 
but this advance weakens them 
materially, 

(F) Repeating move 27, Black is 
evidently acting now on the passive 
principle, waiting for his less expe- 
rienced opponent to commit himself, 
which he shortly does, 

(G) Black has managed this very 
adroitly. White has now no satis- 
factory move, 

Game 65, played on the 27th uf April. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White Black. 
15 QtoB3 P to Q Kt 3 
16 PtoK 4 Kt t. Kt 
17 Pt. Kt B to Kt 2 
18 Qt K3 QR to Bay 
19 QRtoQ x K K to Q sq 
20 PtoB4é PweQbB4 
21 Bto Kt3 PtoB5 
22 BtoB2 Pto B38 
23 PtoB5(?)(D) PtoK 4 
24 PtoQ5(?) (FE) Qte b4 
25 Qt. Q Rt. Q 
26 KR to Kt sq B to B sq 
27 Rto Kt 2 B to Q2 
28 K to B2 K to B2 
29 KtoK 3 B to K sy 
30 P to Kt 4 B to Q2(F) 
81 PtoK R4 R to K Kt sy 
32 B to K sq R to R 4 
33 RtoKk Ktsy Rte RG 
84 K to Q2 P to Q Kt 4 
35 P to Kt 5 RPt P 
86 Bto R 5 ch K to K2 
oT FtP Rto Kk R sy 
38 Pt. Pch PtP 
39 Rto Kt 7 ch K to Q3 
Ww Bto K 2 P to Kt 5 
41 Rt. P Rt. P ch 
42 K to K 3 Rto R6ch 
43 BtoB 3 RtoQB7(G) 
44 Rt. P B to Kt 4 
45 Rfr.Kt7toQb7 Bt. R 
46 Rt. B Pto R 4 
47 RtoBb ch KteQ2 
48 K to Q3 Rto K R7° 
49 KtoB4 Rir, B74. 6 
50 Rt. P Rt. P ch 
51 K to Kt 5 R to Kt 6 ch 

White. Black. 
J. H. Bracxaurser. G. H. MACKENZIF, 
1 PtoK 4 P to K 4 
2K KttoB3 Qto kt B3 
8 BtooB4 BtoB 
4PtoB3 Kt tq B3 

White. Black. 
5 PtoQ 38 (A) PtoQ3 
6 Btok 3 Bto Kt 3 
7 QO Kt to Q2 BtoKk 3 
8 QtoK2(B) QtK2 
9 Castles, KR PtoK R3 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

30 RK to K sq 
31 Rto Kt 2 
32 Rto Kt 3 
33 Q to Kt 2 
34 K to R 2 
35 R to K Kt sq 
36 Qto K 2 
37 K to Kt2 
38 R to K Bsq 
39 Rto Kt 4 
40 K to R2 
41 Rt R 

42 R to K sq 
45 to Kt2 
44 Q to Kt3 
45 RtoK 3 
46 K to Kt 2 
47 P to Kt 4 
48 BPt. P 
49 Q to B2 
50 P to B4(D) 
51 QtoQB2 
52 P to Kt 5 
53 PtooK R4 
54 Rto K 4 
55 PtoR 4 
56 K to Kt sy 
57 Pt. B 

58 PtoR 5 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES, 105 

Black. 
Castles, K R 

RAF 

SSrrrss 
Av 

ou 
bo or 

+ ch ct - 
STS ree SF 
REWER wae 
ne mT 00 oe Be 
~ os ttn 
° r= o 
oS R 

fscewstsse 
SRRwWOn 
RO Co DS pe Stl 
or aa al 
ee 
or 

We Co by 
or 

coMack 

tad 
qr 

AR ROO VOR RR THA ROR TU ROOCOT HR HOOOCOR RAO ROROR THEE 
ROOR Re roVern eRe ar 

SsFsssssrsserssesssr 

© 25 ee 
~~ 
feo} 
~" 

On 
3 

White, 
59 PtoR6 Q 
60 QtoQ R2 Q 
61 K to Kt2 Q 
62 Q to Q 5 ch K 
63 Q to Kt 7 ch K 
64 Q to B8 ch K 
Drawn game, 

(A) Mr. Blackburne does not 
appear to have yet adupted any of 
the forms of this Opening, arising 
from the advance of the Pawns on 
Queen’s side, specimens of which 
appear in the games between Bird 
and Englisch, Bird and Rosenthal, 
and Bird and Zukertort. 

(B) Blackburne’s partiality for 
the move of Q to K 2 is surprising 
to many. I should have played B 
t. K B and then Kt tog b4. 

(C) As will be subsequently seen 
this was good, sound play. 

(D) It may be assumed that the 
effects of this move were fully cal- 
culated by White, and that it was 
made with the object of a greater 
certainty in securing a draw. I 
doubt its soundness, however ; it 
appears to me that Kt P t. P 
was the proper reply for Black, and 
that by careful play of his King, 
so as to keep out of perpetual check, 
he should have won. 

(E) Black should have now taken 
R with R, thus securing another 
passed Pawn, then Q to Q 2 would 
apparently compel White to play 
Q to Q 3 w stop further advance of 
Q P, leaving Black with a position 
which only required time and duc 
care to win. 

(F) Why Black did not take this 
Pawn was inexplicable to me at 
the time it was played and is so 
still. 

_—+es — 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

106 

White. 
G. H. Mack 3nzte. 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 66, played on the 28th of April. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. 

J. H. Bracksurne. 

1PwQB4(A) Pwo K3 

2 Kt to Q B3 B to Kt 5 (B) 
3 QtoQ kts B t. Kt (C) 
4QtB Kt toK B3 
5 PtoK 3 P to Q Kt 3 
6 KttoK B3 B to Q Kt 2 
7 PtoQ4 Kt to K 5 

8 QtQB2 P toK B4 
9 BtoQ3 Castles 

10 Castles Kt to K Kt 4 
1l Kt t. Kt Q t. Kt 

12 Pte KBs Qto K R 4 
13 BtoQ2 Kt toQ B3 
14 BtoQB3(D) KttoK2 
15 PtoK4 P to K B5(E) 
16 Q RB to K sy Rto K B3 
17 RtoK 2 RtoK R3 
18 PtoK R38 PtoQB4 
19 Pt. P (F) Qt. P ch 
20 R fr. Bsq toB2Q to K Kt 4 
21 K to B sq Pto K 4 

22 RtoQ2 RtoQB3 
23 Q to Q sq R to Q sq 

24 BtoK2()(G) RtoQB2 

25 Pto QBS (!)(H) 

26 Pt. P 

27 PweQR4 

28 K to Kt sq 

29 Bto K B sq 
30 Pt. 

ssees 
Oronnod 
men & 

SESSESSSSSRESES 
WOOD OR WO ty 

RVTOZOO RAT 

SsTsrsgreteg 
ao D & 

Kt to Q B sq 
ra 

QtoK2 
K to R sq 
PwQ4 (D 
Kt to Q3 
Q to K Kt 4 

White. Black. 
46 K to Kt 2 K to B 2 
47 K to Kt 3 BtioQB3s 
48 PtoK B4 B to Q2 
49 RtoK B3 P to Q Kt 4 
50 RtoQR3 Pto K Kt3 
51 Pto K Ktd K toK 3 
52 KtoB2 BioQB3 
53 K to K 3 R to Q Rsq 
54 RtoQBs R to Q B sq 
55 KtoQ4 K to B2 
56 RtoK R3(J) K to Kt sq 
57 RtoQkS R to Q sq 
58 Rt QR B to K sq 
59 RtoQR7 R to Q 2 
60 RtoR8 KtoB2. 
61 PtoQ Kt4 RtoQ Kt 2 
62 KtoQB5 K to B sq 
63 RtoQB8 RtoQ2 
64 KtoQs K to B 2 
65 B to Q 4(K) R to Q Kt 2 
66 BtoQBS RtoQ2 
67 RtoQ Kt 8 K to B sq 
68 K to K 6 Resigns, 

(A) This move of P to QB 4 
for first player is unexceptionable, 
and equal to any on the board. As 
stated elsewhere, I prefer P to K B 
4, It is a question of style, how- 
ever, and the weight of authority 
is against me. P to K 3 as open- 
ing move suddenly grew into favour 
at Paris in 1878, and has still the 
sanction of at least one leading 
tactician. It was played with con- 
siderable success in the Interna- 
tional Tournament in Paris that 
year in many games. Curi- 
ously enough, owever, in no in- 
stance has it been adopted in the 
present one. 

(B) Not considered a good move. 
This is very much a question of 
taste. It certainly rarely leads to 
a form of game which [ enjoy or 
care to adopt. 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 107 

(C) This capture is not to be 
commended ; White has thus early 
an advantage in position, slight it 
may be, but between players so 
evenly matched as Captain Mac- 
kenzie and Mr. Blackburne not 
inappreciable. 

(D) White’s game is now beau- 
tifully opened. 

(E) Weak in my opinion: in 
fact, Blackburne’s play as a whole 
throughout the Tournament is 
below his proper form. 

(F) Pawn to Queen’s 5th would 
have been surely good, for if Black 
advanced P to K 4, then P toQ Kt 4 
wouldenable Whiteto open the posi- 
tion on the Q side with advantage. 

(G) This well-timed attack, 
opened by White on Black’s weak 
point, was very judicious. 

(H) Very finely played. It is 
obvious that the Pawn cannot 
well be taken either by Rook or 
Pawn. 

(I) This appears to be the best 
that Black could do under the cir- 
cumstances, 

(J) Black cannot now play R to 
Q RB sq, and his chance of a draw 
is, therefore, hopeless. 

(K) White (Captain Mackenzie) 
plays the ending of this game with 
the greatest skill and nicety. 

oe 

Gume 67, played on the 30th of April. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
8. Rosextuat. J. HH. BLacksUnnr. 25 QE to K sy Q to K 2 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 3 26 K to Kt 2 Qto K3 
2PtoQ4 Pto Q4 27 Q to Q sq B to B sq 
3 Pt. P P:t.-P 28 Qto BS PtoK B4 
4 Ktto K B: Kt to K B3 29 KR to Q sq BtoQ3 
5 BwQ3 BtoQ3 30 BtoQ2 PtoBSd 
6 Castles Castles 3L QR to K sq R to K Bsq 
7 KttoB3 Kt to B3 32 Pto K Kt 4 RtoKs 
8 BtoK Kt5 Bto K Kt5(A) 33 PtoK R3 P to K Kt 4 
9 K to R sq B to K 2(B) 34 Q to Q sq QtoKR3 
10 BtoK3(C) QteQ2 35 QtoB3 Q to Kt 3 
11 BtoK2 Bt. Kt 86 QtoQsq(E) QtoR3 
12 Bt. B Kt to Q sq 37 QtoB3 Bto B2 
13 Kt to K 2 PtoB3 38 KR to K R sq QtoK 3 
14 Kt to Kt 3 P to K Kt3 89 QtoQs3 K to Kt 2 
15 Q to Q3 Kt to K 3 40 Rto K B sy Q to Kt 3 
16 Q Rto K sq BtoQ3 41 Pte Bd Rt. 
17 BtoQ sq QtoB2 42 Qt. Q ch K t.Q 
18 PtoQBS K KR to K sq 43 Rt. R Rt KR 
19 QtoQ2 Kt to B5 44 Bt. R KtoB3 
20 Bto B38 (D) RtoK 3 45 K to B2 K to K 3 
21 Kt to K 2 Kt t. Kt 46 K to K 2 Bto Kt3 
22 Rt. Kt QR to K sq 47 BtoB2 K to Q3 
23 Pto K Kt3 KttoK 5 48 K to Q 3 B to Q sq 
24 Bt, Kt Rt. B 49 B to Kt sq K to B2 

riginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

108 

White. 
5U DP to Kt 4 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Black. 
4 to K 2 
K to Kt 3 
PtooQR4 
K to Kt 4 
KtoR3 
BtoB3 
P to Kt 4 
K to Kt 2 
Drawn. 

(A) The first cight meves are 
idvutical on beth sides, and the 
game does not so far promise tu be 
of surpassing interest. 

(B) This 

move, 

though safe 

enough, no doubt does not hold 
out much indication or hope of 

enterprise. 

White. 

J. H. BLAcKBURNE. 

ONeKCeON Ae Owe 
oe - op & 

alll ape eel el 

22 Kt to Q 5 

(C) Both players adopt the same 
tucties, and treat one another's play 
with becoming r respect, neither ap- 
pearing to care for the slightest 
venture. 

(D) Back again to the place from 
whence he came. Indecision ap- 
pears to bea marked characteristic 
of this game. Micawber-like, each 
appears to be waiting for something 
to turn up. 

(E) From the repetition of moves 
it isevident that a draw is intended, 
and this was the result of this very 
dull affair. It would be difficult to 
find a game of Chess ever played 
more utterly devoid of interest. 

* 

os 

Game 68, played on the 21st of May. 

SCOTCH GAME. 

Black. 
S. Rosentuat. 

PtoK 4 

a 
-_— la | 
onw s 

je=) 

~ 

Ags 
x oo 

c+ 
~e 
Se 

a 
Q 

~~ 

OnmyrIesROWWO 

sss 
Mroo = 

Rto R6 

Kt to K 4 
Pto K Kt4 
K R to B sq 
P to Kt 4 

K Kt to BS 
Qt. B 

Kt to K Kt 5 

(?) (B) 

White. 
23 Qt. Kt 
24 Qto K 2 

Black, 

Qto hs 
K to K sy 

25 Pto K Kt 4 Kt to K 4 
26 KRto Kt 2 Rto R2 
27 Rto ht 3 Pte B3 
28 Ktto K 3 Rto K 2 

29 Bit. P 
30 Q to Q sy 
31 Pt. Kt 

R(B sq)toK sq 
Kt to Kt 3 
Resigns. 

(A) ‘The first six moves on each 
side are those now most approved 
by recognised authorities. A re- 
matkably fine game played this way 
vecurred in the Vises Tourna- 
ment of 1873, Rosenthal attacking 
against Anderssen, won by the 
latter. In another game Bird, as 
second player against Dr. Meitner, 
at move 6 adopted Q to K 3 in lieu 
of Kt to K 2, and won the game, 
which wus also a very good one. 

(B) This was adopted by Dr- 

Jriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 

Fleissig at Vienna in last year's 
Tournament, and is an excellent 

move. 

(C) I should prefer to change 

Bishops. 

(D) Now Black has lost an im- 

109 

portant move; if he intended to 
change off the Bishop he had 
better have done so at once at 
move 7, 

away the piece, 

Game 69, played on the Ist of May, 

(E) A fatal blunder: throwing 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White Black. 
J. H. Bracknrvayr. A. 2. Skipwortn. 35 Kt t.Q RtoB2 
IPtoK4 PtoK 4 36 PtoQ Kt4 Kt to Kt 2 
2K Kt to B38 Q Kt to B3 37 RtoQs PwB3 
3 Bto Ktd PtoQR: 38 RtoQ4 Rt B3 
4BtoR4 Kt to B3 39 K to B2 Kt to Q 3 
5 PtoQ3 BtoB4 40 Kt to K 5 Kt to B4 
6 Castles PtoQ Kt4 41 Rt QB4 RtoQ3 
7 Bto Kkt3 PtoQ3 42 Pto Kt 4 Kt to K 2 
8 Btok3 Bto K Kt 43 K to K 2 P to Kt 4 
9 PtoB3 PioK R3 44 Rto K 4 Kt to Q4 
10 Q Kt to Q2 Kt to K 2 (A) 45 Kt toQ 3 Rto BS 
11 Bt. B Pt. B 46 RtoK 5 RtoQ3 
12 Bt. P ch K to B sq 47 RtoK 8 K to Kt 2 
13 Bto Kt 3 Qt.P 48 RtoQ Kt s Rto K 3ch 
14 Bto B2 Q to Q 3 49 K to B2 Kt to K 6 
15 QtoK 2 Kt to Kt 3 (B) 50 P to Kt 5 Kt toQ 8 ch 
16 QtoK 3 Bw K3 51 K to B sq PtP 
17 KRtwQ sy Q to K 2 52 Kt. P Rto K 6 
18 Kt to Kt 3 Bt. Kt(C) 53 RtoQsb K to B3 
19 Pt.B K to B2 54 RtoQ 6 ch KtoK2 
20 PtoR 38 K Rto KB 55 RtoQ4 K to B38 
sy (D) 56 P to Kt 4 Kt to BG 
21 RtoRS5 Kto Ktsq , 57 Kt to K sq RtoK3 
22 K R to Rsq Qt Q3 58 Kt to B2 Rto K7 
23 Pto B4 QtoB3 59 Ktto R3 RtoQR7 
24 BtoQ 3 K to R2 60 Kt to B4 RK to R& ch 
25 Pt. P Pt. P 61 KtoB2 Rto R7ch 
26 Bt. P Q to Kt 2 62 RtoQ2 RtoR8 
27 BtoB4 Rt. R 63 Kt to K 3 KtoK4 
28 Rt. R Kt t. P 64 Rto Kt 2 RtoKR8 
29 BtoQ3s Kt to Q 3 65 K to Kt2 RtwK8 
30 Bt. Kt ch Kt. B 66 P to Kt 5(!) Ktto RS 
31 Kt t. P ch K to R2 67 Pto Kt 6 (!1)(B) Kt t. P 
82 Q to Q 8 ech Qto K5 68 Rto Kkt5ch(!) Kto Ba 
33 Rt. P RtoB4 69 K to B 2 (!) Rt. Kt 
34 PtoB3 Qt. Q 70 Rto K B5, mate, 
Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

110 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(A) Mr. Skipworth would have 
acted prudently in Custling at this 
move, reserving Kt to K 2. 

(B) Beyond having moved his 
King, which stops communication 
between his two Rooks, Black has 

so fur sustained no disadvantage. 

(C) We should have preferred 
P to Q B 5; parting with the 
Bishop for the Knight in this posi- 
tion, and opening Q Efile, was not 
played with Mr, Skipworth’s usual 
judgment, 

(D) Kt to K B5,and P to K 
Kt 4, appeared worthy of attention. 
For example: 

20.... Kt toK B5 
21 RtoR5 P to K Kt 4 
2KRtQR PtKKtsd 
23 Pt. P Kt t. P 

24 Q to K sq QtoK B3 

and Black, Ithink, would have had 
a good attack, and at least an even 
game. 

(E) The finish is elegantly played 
by Blackburne. 

Game 70, played on the 3rd of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 

8S. Wivawer, J.H, BLaAckBURN:. 
1PtK4 Pto K 38 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 KttoQB3 Kt to K B38 
4BtoK Kti Bto K 2 
5 Pt. P(A) Kt t. P 
6 Kt t. Kt (B) Pt. Kt 
7 QtoK 2 Bto K 3 
8 Bt. B Qt B 
9 Castles Castles 
ld PtoK B4 R to K sq 
1l PtoK Kt4(C) KttoB3 
12 PtoBS BtoQ2 
13 Qt. Q Kt t. Q (D) 
14 Kt to B38 PtoK B38 
15 BtoQ3 Kt to B sq 
16K Rto Ktsq KttoQ38 
17 QR to B sq BtoQ Kt4 
18 Bt. B Ktt. B 
19 PtoKt45(E) KtoRsq 
20 Pt. P(F) PtP 
21 K to Q sq Kt to Q 3 
22 KttoQ2(G) Rto K Ktsq 
23 Rt. RB Rt. R 
24 Rto B2 R to Kt 4 
25 K to K 2 R t. P (?) (H) 
26 Rt R Ktt. R 
27 Pte Bs Kt toQ3 

White. Black. 
28 Kt to B sq K to Kt 2 (I) 
29 KttoK 3 PtoB3 
30 P to Kt 3 KtoB2 
31 PtoB4 K to K 3 
32 K toB3 KttoB4 
33 Kt to B2 P to Kt 3 
34 K to B4 Kt to K 2 
35 Kt to K 8 PtoKR4 
36 PtoK R4 PtoR3 
387 PtoR4 PtoR4 
38 K to Kt 8 nt nics 

) 

39 Kt t. Kt Kt ke 
40 Pt. P PtoBd 
41 PtoQé6 K to K 3 
42 Pt.P PtP 
43 KtoB4 Kt. P 
44 Kto BS K to K 2 
45 K to Kt 6 K to K 3 
46 Kt. P KtoB4 
47 KtoR6 KtoK 5 
48 Pto RS PtoBb4 
49 K to Kt 5 Pto BS 
50 PtoR6 PtoB6 
51 PtoR7 PtoB? 
52 P Queens P Queens 
53 Q to R& ch KtoQs5 
54 Q to Q 8 ch K toK 4 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 111 

55 Q to K 7 ch K toQ 5 
56 Q to Q7 ch K to K 4 
57 Qto K 7 ch K toQ5 
58 Q to Q7 ch K to K 4 
Drawn game. 

(A) Ican see nothing that could 
be gained by this move, which only 
tends to change off two pieces on 
each side and to free Black’s game, 
B t, Kt, and P to K 5 is greatly 
to be preferred. 

(B) Even now I would rather 
retire the Bishop. 

(C) Injudicious. There is nothing 
in this attack, and it results in 
Winawer getting an isolated Pawn, 
which subsequently fell, and should 
have entailed the loss of the game. 

(D) It was necessary to retake 
thus, for if Rook had captured, 

Black would lose his Q P by B to 
Kt 2. 

(E) Useless. 

(F) R to K sq would have been 
better. 

(G) Of course White must lose 
the Pawn. Kt to R 4 would be 
very prejudicial. 

(H) I cannot understand White 
thus readily changing his Rook. 
With due skill he should have won 
from this position. 

(I) Kt to B 5 at once was, I 
think, better. It would force White 
to advance the Kt P. 

(J) Blackburne generally plays 
end-games with consummate skill, 
but Ido not like this move. Pto Q 
B 4 would have been more to the 
purpose. The game, which ended 
in a draw, was not played by Black- 
burne up to his usual mark. 

Game 71, played on the {th of May. 
SCOTCH OPENING. 

White. Black, 
J. H. BLackEreye. S. WIXAWER, 
‘1PtwK4 Pto K 4 
2K KttoB3 Q Ktto BS 
3 PtoQ4 PtP 
4 Ktt.P Kt t. Kt (A) 
5 Qt. Kt QtoB3 
6 QtoK3(B) BtoKt5ch(C) 
7 PtoB3 BtoR 4 
8 KttoR 3 Bto Kt 8 
9 Qto Kt 3 PtoQ3 
10 KttoB4(D) BtoK8 
ll Ktt. B RP t. Kt 
12 PtoQR38(E) Qto K 4 
13 BtoQ3 Qt. Q 
14 RPt.Q Kt to K 2 
15 BtoK B4 Pto KB3 
16 Castles,Q R Castles, QR 
17 Bto B2 Ptok3 
18 RtoQ2 K Rto B sq 
19 R to K sq Kt to B 3 

White. Black. 
20 BtoK 3 Kt to R 4 
21 PtoQ Kt4 i vali 

(PF) 

22 Bt. Kt Bt. B 
23 K to Kt 2 BtoB2 
24 BtoQ 4 K R to K sq 
25 PtoB3 PtoQ Kt 4 
26 BtoB2 PtoQ Kt3 
27 K R to Q sq K to Kt 2 
28 Pto Kt4 RtoK 2 
29 B to Kt 3 Q R to K sq 
30 RtoQ4 K to B3 
31 BtoB4 R to Q R sq 
32 Bto Kt 3 BtoK 3 
38 BtoB4 R toQ 2 
34 Bto Kt 3 QR to Q sq 
35 KR to Q2 K to Kt 2 
36 RK to Q sq Drawn. 

(A) The opinions of eminent 

| fron 

NIVERSITY 

ir 

PRINCETON U 

112 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

recognised authorities, supported 
by the experience of Der Tasa and 
Dufresne, and other recorded games, 
condenin this move. 

(B) P to K 5 should be better; 
if not there appears no objection 
to second player taking with the 
Kt at move 4, 

(C) This appears the best move 
under the circumstances, and first 
player does not appear to have any 
material advantage. 

(D) I would much rather have 
played B to Q 3, reserving the Kt’s 

move, which, moreover, could not 
be well prevented, for Black could 
not yet play B to K 3 with advan- 
tage, on account of White's reply- 
ing with Castling, threatening B to 
K Kt 5. Q B2 would also be a 
nice square for the Kt. 

(E) Why not B to K Kt 5f 
Now surely it would have been 
formidable. 

(F) At the time we should not 
have considered it extremely hazar- 
dous to have predicted another 
draw. 

—_+ — 

Game 72, played on the 18th of May. 

PETROFF. 

White. Black White. Black. 
5. WINAWER. J. 1. BLAcknuRNe- 29 PtoQ Kt 4 K Rto K 2 
1 PtoK 4 PtoK 4 30 QtoRG Pto B4 
2K KttoB3 K Ktto B3(A) 31 Qte BB ch K to Kkt2 
3 Kt t. P P to Q3 32 Pt. P Rt. BP 
4 KttoK B3 Kt t. P 33: QtoQ8 R (B4)toK4 
5 PtoQ4 Bt. K2 34 QtoQ4 K to B2 
6 Bt Qs PtoQ4 35 QtoQB4ach Kto Bsy 
7 Castles Castles 36 Qt BS PtoQ Kt 4 
8PtrB4 Q Kt to BS 37 PtoK4(D) KtoB2 
9 PtP +. 38 Q to BG PtoK R4 
10 Kto K sq Kt to B3 39 Q to R6 K to Ki 2 
11 Kt to B3 Q to Q sq 40 Oto BG KtoR2 
12 PtoK R3 BtoK 3 41 Oto RG KtoR3 
13 Bto K 3 Kt toQ4 42 KtoR2 K to Kt 2 
14 Qto B2 P to K Kt 3 43 K to Kt sq P to Kt 4 
15 PtoR3 BtoB3 44 K to R2 PtoR5 
16 Kt to K 4 Kt t. B 45 K to Kt sq K to B2 
17 Pt. Kt BtoQ4 46 K to R 2 “RtoQ2 
18 Kt t. Bch Q t. Kt 47 QtoB6 R(Q2)toK 2 
19 Rto K B sq Q R to K sq 48 QO to RG K to B sq 
20 QR to K sq Bt. Kt 49 K to Kt K to K sq 
21 Rt. B Q to Q3 50 Qto B& ch K to B2 
22QRtoK Bs, RtoK2 51 QtoR6G K to Kt 2 
23 Q to B2 KttoK4(!)(B) 52 KtoR2 RtoK B2 
24 Pt. Kt t. B 53 QtoQ BE Kto R2 
25 Rto BG Rt. P 54 QO toQ RG Rto K Kt 2 
2 RE BP QtRch(C) S55 QtKB6 — R(Kt2toK2 
27 Qt.Q Rt. R 56 QtoQRGE K to Kt 2 
28 Qta as P to Kt 3 57 K to Kt sq Kt. P 

riginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 113 

White. Black, 
58 Qt. Kt P KtoR8 
59 Q to B6 ch R(K 5) to K3 
60 Qt QB3 K to Kt 3 
61 KtoR2 RtoK6 ; 
62 QtoQBé6ch R(K2)toK3 
63 QtoR8 PtoR3 
64 Q to Kt 8 ch K to B3 

Drawn game. 

[Notes by the Editor. ] 

(A) This is the only example of 
the Petroff Defence throughout the 
Tournament. 

(B) A fine move, which gives 
Black the advantage. 

(C) Tchigorin pointed out the 
following variation as winning for 
Black; 

26.... RtoKB4 
27 Rt. Rch KtR 

28 Qt K Rt. Rch 

29 Qt. Reh Qt. Qch 

30 Kt.Q PoQB4 

The variations from this point are 
endless, but the advantage of posi- 
tion is always with Black, as he 
can face the White King, and when 
the P’s moves are exhausted, the 
unsupported K P in the centre 
falls. The move adopted by Black- 
burne leads certainly to a draw. 

(D) Both players are masters of 
the art of doing nothing without 
incurring danger. This art they 
exhibit to the close of the game, 
which might fairly be given up 
as drawn without more, waste of 
time. 

Game 73, played on the 7th of May. 

FRENCH GAME. 
White. Black. [Notes by the Editor.] 
B, Eneuisen. J. H, BLACKBURNE. (A) A well-known trap, into 

1 Pto K 4 PtoK 3 which Zukertort fell in this posi- 
2PtoQt PtoQ4 tion in one of his match games 
83 PtP Pt YP with Potter. Blackburne was well 
4KKttBs KKito B38 acquainted with this game, but it 
5 BtoQ3 Bt Q3 was apparently not known, or had 
: ee, ; sai 5 been forgotten, by Englisch. 

g pag Kt 5 Bto K Kt 5 _(B) Giving Black his hoped-for 
9BtKt(A) QtB vietory. 
10 Ktt. P (B) Qt R38 (C) Zukertort, in his notes to 
11 PtoKR3(C) Ktt. PD) the game with Potter, points out 
12 BtoK2(E) Ktt. Kt ch that 11 Q to Q Bis the only move 
13 Bt. Kt Bt. P to save the game, by forcing the 
14 Rto K sq BtoKk 3 exchange of Qs, for if 11 Q to R 4, 
15 PtoKKt3 QRtoQ sq 12 Kt toB4,K B t. Kt, 13 Qt. 
16 QtoK2(F) Bt. Kt B, Bt. Kt, 14 Pt. B, Q BR to Q, 
17 Bt. B Bt P 15 P to Q B 8, maintaining the 
18 B to K 4 Rto Q7 (!)(@) extra P. 

19 Qt. R BtoR7 ch : . 

Resigns. (D) Up to this point Black has 
a 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

114 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

had only to play the moves of his 
model game. 

(E) The game is lost in any 
case. Zukertort here played 12 Kt 
to K 7 ch, K toR (!), 13 Kt t. Kt, 
Bt. Q. 12 Bt. P ch seems best, 

but is bad enough, Q t. B, 138 Q t. 
Kt, Bt. Kt, with a winning game. 
(F) White struggles hard under 
the difficulties of his hopeless 
sition. 
(G) Well played, and decisive. 

Game 74, played on the 8th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
J. H. Bracksvrne. Dn. Noa. 
1PtK4 PtoK3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 QKttoB3 K Kt to B3 
4Pt.P Pt. 2 
5 Ktto B38 BtoQ3 
6 BtoQ3 PtoQB3 
7 Castles Castles 
8 BtoK Kti Bto K Kt 5 
9PtoKR3 Bt. Kt (A) 
10 Qt. B Q Kt to Q2 
ll QRto K sq(B) Qto B2 
12 Rito K2 K R to K sq 
13 K Rto K sq Rt. R 
14 RtR R to K sq 
15 Kt toQ sq Rt. R 
16 Qt. R (C) BtoB5d 
17 Bt. B Qt.B 
18 PtoQB3 PtoK Kt3 
19 Kt to K3 Kt to B sq 
20 PtoK Kt38 QtoQ3 
21 QtoB3 Kt(Bsq)toQ2 
22 Kt to Kt 2 K to Kt2 
23 KttoB4 Q to K2 
24 K to Kt 2 Kt to B sq 
25 PtoK R4 PtoK R4 
26 BtoB2 Kt(Bsq)toQ2 
27 QwQ3 Kt to B sq 
28 QtoQ 2 Kt to Kt 5 
29 B to Q sq Kt toB3 
30 PtoB3 Kt(Bsq) toQ2 
31 KtoB2 Kt to K Ktsq 
32 BtoB2 Kt(Ktsq)toB3 
33 Kt to Kt 2 Kt to B sq 
34 Q to B 4 PtoR3 
35 Kt to K3 Kt to K 8 

386 QtoK5(D)_ K to Kt aq 

White. Black. 
37 Kt to Kt2 Kt to Q2 
38 QtoK 3 QtoB3 
39 Ktto K sq Kt to Kt 2 
40 BtoQ3 Kt to K 3 
41 Kt to Kt 2 K to Kt 2 
42 BtoB2 K to B sq 
43 Q to R 6 ch Q to Kt2 
44 QtoQ2 Kt to B3 
45 KttoBé4 Kt to B2 
46 Kt toQ3 Kt to K 3 
47 KttoK5 Kt to Kt sq 
48 QtoK 3 Q to R 3(7)( E) 
49 Ktt. Peh Pt. Kt 
50 Qt. Kt Q to Q7 ch 
5L QtoK 2 Q t. Q ch 
52 K t.Q K to Kt 2 
538 KtoK 3 KtoB3 
54 K to B 4 Ktto R3 
55 P to K Kt4 Kt to B2 
56 P to Kt 5 ch K to Kt 2 
57 BtoQ3 K to R2 
58 P to Kt 3 K to Kt 2 
59 PtoB4 K to R2 
60 PtoBSd K to Kt 2 
61 KtoK 3 Kt to Q sq 
62 PtoB4 Resigns. 

This specimen of the French 
Defence cannot be regarded as re- 
plete with incident, its only note- 
worthy feature being the avidity 
with which each player seeks every 
opportunity of changing pieces, 

(A) It is not usual to capture 
the Knight at this point, as it is 
considered rather to assist the de- 
velopment of White’s game. The 

riginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES, 115 

exchange, however, does not seem 
to be attended with any disad- 
vantage in this instance, and ap- 
pears rather to assist in bringing 
about the draw so evidently desired. 

(B) Kt to Qsq, and from thence 
to K 3, is the line of play I should 
have preferred. 

(C) The exchange of the two 

Rooks on each side may also have 
arisen from the desire of each player 
to make sure of the draw. 

(D) White gains ground slightly 
here. 

E) Mr. Blackburne’s patience 
and endurance are at last rewarded. 
Black by this move loses a P and 
the game. 

Game 75, played on the 10th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
M, Tcuicoriy, J.H, BLAcKBURNE. 

1PtoK B4(A) PtoK3 

2PtoK3(B) PtQKt3 
3 K KttoB3 B to Kt 2 
4PtoQ Kt3 BtoK 2 

5 Bto Kt 2 B to B 8 (C) 
6 KttoB3 Kt to K 2 
7BteoQ3(D) KttQ4 
8 QtoK2(E) KttoB3 

9 PwoQk3 Kt t. Kt 

10 Pt. Kt PtokK4 
11 Castles, Q BR Qto K2 
12 BtoBd Castles, QR 
13 K R to K sq K R to K aq 
14 Qt. B2 RecA tes vf, 
15 BtoR8 B to Kt 2 (G) 
16 PtoKt3(H) PtoB4 
17 PtoK4 Pt.EKP 
18 Rt. P Q to B sq (1) 
19 RtoK 2 Yh EP 

20 Rt. R Qt B 

21 Pt.P Q to B aq 
22 QteQ2 K to Kt sq 
23 K to Ktsq(J) PtoQ3 
24 Ktto Kt5 QtoB3 

25 Kt t. P (i) QtoR5 
26 Kt to Kt 5 BtooK R38 
27 BtoK 6 Bt. Kt 

28 Pt. B Rto K Bsq 
29 PtoR3 Kt to K 4 
30 BtoBsq(!) RtoB?7 

31 QtoQ4 BtoK5 
32 R to Q2 RtoBs 
33 Q to R 4 (!) PtoR4 

White. Black. 
34 Bto Q 5 (1) Rt. Bch 
35 Kt. R Q to K 8 ch 
36 KtoKt2(!) KtoR2 
37 RtoQ4 BtoB4 
38 P to Kt 4 PtoB4s 
39 Pt. BP QPt.P 
40 R to R 4(!) QtoQ7 
41 RtoR7 ch KtoR3 
42 BtoKkt7ch KtoR2 
43 BtoQich(?) KioR3S 
44 BtoKkt7ch KtoR2 
45 Bto Kt2ch (!)) K to R3 
46 B to B sq ch PtoBd 
47 Bt.Pch(L) Resigns. 

(A) This is the only PtoK B4 
opening in the Tournament, with 
shh exception of those played by 

(B) Morphy, in opening, played 
P to K 8assecond move, and Kt to 
K BS as third. It is supposed to 
make little difference as to the order 
in which these moves are made, but 
regarded with precision Kt to K B 
8 (2) and P to K 3 (3) is a shade 
better, and for reasons which could 
be easily defined, 

(C) Ido not like the Bishop here 
where the Knight should be. There 
are, doubtless, many occasions 
where the stereotyped rules may 
be departed from with advantage, 

ir al fre y 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

116 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

but this does not appear to me to 
be one of them. 

(D) White unquestionably has 
already the better opening. 

(E) The move now made shows 
that Mr. Tchigorin can exercise 
sound judgment and care when ne- 
cessiry, notwithstanding his well- 
known proclivities for enterprising, 
dashing, and brilliant play. Here 
he might have been tempted to 
reply with Kt t. Kt, and it would 
only have beeome a question of 
position. Black's best play would 
probably be B t. B at Kt 2. White 
could retort with R to Q Kt sq. 
The result would only be an even 
game, and first player, by a number 
of tempting but injudicious ex- 
changes, would have lost the slight 
advantage he undoubtedly had in 
the opening. 

(F) The play for the last five 
moves strikes me as affording a 
specimen of very high-class Chess 
on both sides, and interests me 
much. 

(GQ) The positions are compact 
and sound, and the struggle may 
be regarded as only about to com- 
mence. Its continuation may be 
studied with pleasure, instruction, 
and advantage. 

_ (H) Tam still enthusiastic over 

this game. Mark how both players 
are alive to the importance of gain- 
ing the slightest advantage at this 

critical point, in so prudently re- 
tiring their Bishops and advancing 
their Pawns ready for decisive ac- 
tion. 

(1) At first sight it appears that 
Kt to Q 5 would be advantageous 
to Black by winning the exchange, 
but a complicated and critical posi- 
tion (and this is one of them) Mr. 
Blackburne excels in, and possibly 
he arrived at the same conclusion 
which I have done, viz., that K t. 
K P in reply would yield his oppo- 
nent for the loss of Rook in ex- 
change for Bishop and Pawn more 
than an equivalent in position. 

(J) The contest on both sides 
continues to be conducted splen- 
didly. It is scarcely necessary to 
repeat that Tchigorin’s play in 
this and other encounters prove 
him to possess the qualifications 
for the grandest Chess. In the 
present instance, whilst managing 
attack and defence capitally, the 
combatants are at the same time 
making a judicious arrangement of 
their forces for a coming and 
severe battle. 

(K) At first examination this 
appears a risky move on account 
of Black’s reply, Q to R 5, The 
sequel tends to prove, however, 
that Tchigorin was justified in his 
capture. 

(L) A hardly-earned and well- 
deserved victory. 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

117 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 

Game 76, played on the lith of May, 

FRENCH GAME. 

Black. 

E 

mie 

White. 

= = Seek s 

= - oO | 5 ee 

ed 2 o PP » ,. 19 ‘ “Eg 

awe on ~ernons tine oS Snel Mes Lf a ‘cn Sy» te 
Bh koh Om st ie OR boven on bn, a ed og 
SSSSsSSSSSSSSsHFSSHESIZSSISFHSESE LHS Sgeere 
Zi nMAMRaMARARAR Me RMA ee leo Repiae 
a SESS py 
a on 2 
oe 3 saabee 

Olt0 OD 2 Se SOME FT FoF ig too Bes SO ederes a) ers. Ag. 
8 a om FB Po Ce Mo to iene Bate 6 Zane ve 
Sassusssessshssesssssssee2 Gsssesssse BETESS 
MAM Ua AO OM OAM ll lle eS cpepenet 8] 
SSSRGRRZRBRSRZSSSSSBZESLSESERAR RRRRRARABS 22385 

Zz oD a = S a © 7 

B con 2 is. RAS ate fn se 4 

+ at ee nl ae Lieto = on cotton td dna? F7 Fine WI ame Tid Fe ) 

CMOS, Og Mee CREE OS a Sade e monde keacKakeOnka Co 

BSS SBT S se eT ST SST SM SM sSsussssessse2g2 SS8383838u38 

SeOMA MOM AMMO ode oOMonAmaemmmnmmeme Meee oo mM 

La) 3) = 

: ~~ 7 2 a -~_- oa 

Gav 3 So 0 ron Fon 2s i Se go Fo Samal Cakes oa ? 20 

EM OS ASEM ROTOR To Se tas wig CRe Se ne CHM MMAR. Mo 

Seshutsyessssiagutiayte 323949838 S2eslsegsssesuse 

~Aawoneacasavoumad SeeuaeSee 2 

: mo a Seadtaedo eee eee ee santo amoMaeonkm 

TANDEM OMDRACHMTEMONDOASOHANRAHOIDOOCHAMNAMORDODAEND 
OS NN CII CI NO No 09 09 09 00 OD OD OD OD OOO + 

ITY 

PRINCETON UNIVERS 

lis LONDON CHESS TOURNAMEN', 

(B) Mr. Mortimer does not lack 
enterprise, and seldom fails to im- 
part life and interest into the 
game. This move is also a very 
good one. 

(C) An ingenious device for 
doubling a Pawn. 

(D) White has now the better 
game. 

(E) White at last makes a faulty 
move. He afterwards plays inju- 
diviously in allowing Black’s King 
to reach Kt 6, the only move which 
could seeure a win, 

Game 77, pliyed on the loth of May. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
H, EF, Brrp. J. H. Brackenvene. 
1PtwKB4 PtoK8 
2 KttoK BS Bto K2 
3 PtoK3 P to Q Kt3 
4BtoK2 B to Q Kt 2 
5 Castles PtoQB4 
6 PtoQ3 Kt toQB3 
7 Q Kt to Q2 QtoQ B2 
8 KttoK4 PtooK B4 
9 Kt to Kt 3 Castles, Q R 

10 BtoQ2 Kt toK B38 
ll PtoQR38(A) PtoKkK4 
12 PtoQ Kt 4 PtoK R5(B) 
138 KttoK Rsq PtoK R6 
14 Pto K Kt3 QRtoK Ktsq 
15 PtoQ Kt 5 Kt toQR4 
16 KttoK5(C) PwK Kt4 
17 BtoK B38 Pt. P 

18 K Pt. P BtoQ3 
ly Bt. Kt (D) Pt. B 

20 KttoB7(E) Bt. BP (F) 
2L Rto B2(G) Rto R2 
22 QtoK 2 Rt, Kt 

23 Bt. Bch Q t. B (A) 
24 Rt. B Qto B2 
25 QRtoK Bsq KttoQ4 
26 RtoK R4 PtoK Bid 
27 Rt. RP K R to Kt 2 
28 QtoK B3 @ to K 4 
29 Pte QB4 QtoQ ich 
80 Kt to B2 Pt. P 

31 Rt. P Kt to K 6 
32 RtoKsq(I) KttoK B4 
33 Rt. K Q t. R ch 
34 KtoRs KtoB2 
85 Kt to K QtoR3 

White. Black. 
36 QtoB2 P to Q 3 (J) 
37 Q to B3 R to K BR sq 
38 Q to Kt 2 Kt to Q 5 (K) 

39 KttoK Kt5(L) Rto K Kt sq 

40 RtoK Ktsq KtoKt3 
41 Qto kt 3 PtoK4 

42 Qto Kt 4 Qto K B3(?) 
43 KttoK 4(!)(M) Rt. Q 

44 Kt t. Q Rt. R ch 
45 Kt. KR Kt to K 7 ch 
46 K to B2 Kt to BS 
47 Kio K 3 K to B2 
48 KtoK 4 KttoR6 
49 K to B5 PtoQRS 
50 KttoQich KtoQ2 

51 PtoKt6(N) Pt. P 

52 Kt t. P ch K to B3 

53 Kt t. P Kt to B7 
54 Kt to Kt 2 PtoQ4 

55 PtooK R4 PtoKk 5 

56 Pt. P ch Kt.P 

57 Pt. P ch 

Ktt. P 
58 PtoQR4 Kt to Q3ch 
59 K to Kt6 Pto B 
60 PtoK RS Pto B 
61 Kt to Q sq Pto B 
62 KttoK3ch KtoK 
63 Kt t. P 
64 Kt to Q4ch (!) Kt t. Kt 

65 PtoR6 Kt to B3 
66 PtoR7 Kt to K 4ch 
67 K te Kt 7 Resigns. 

(A) This quiet and modest 
looking move is mostly of the 
greatest importance, and particu. 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 119 

larly so in close games; it forms a 
starting point and basis for White's 
designs in the present game. 

(B) It becomes apparent thus 
early that each player is bent upon 
instituting an attack with as little 
delay as possible. 

(C) Kt to Kt 5 would have been 
good here, not so forcible at first 
sight, but in reality safer and 
sounder than the one made in the 
text of Kt to K 5, which would 
have effectually foiled Black’s con- 
templated attack, commencing with 
P to K Kt 4. 

(D) Premature. Q to K sq first 
would be judicious. 

(E) Bird played throughout this 
Tournament at times with a sin- 
gular lack of judgment, and more 
than usual impetuosity, utterly for- 
getting or ignoring the paramount 
importance of safety. In the pre- 
sent position White's Pawns are 
obviously so much stronger than 
Black’s that bis policy should be to 
avoid complications and play so as 
to bring about an end-game, B t. 
B ch andQ to K B 3 would help to 
bring about this result. 

(F) A very well conceived move, 
which required to be carefully and 
accurately answered. 

(G) The correct reply. 

(H) Both Zukertort and Steinitz, 
ou looking through the game ut its 
conclusion, inclined to think that 
Blackburne should have taken with 
the King (I thought so, too), inter- 

ing Kt when Q checked at B 3, 
White's next move of PtoQB4 
would not have been so formidable 
as at first sight it appeared. For 
example : 

3 ..... Kt. B 
24 Q to B3 ch Kt to Q 4 
25 PtoQBé Q to K 4 

26 QRtoK Bsq BtoK 6, 

and White loses the exchange with- 
out any equivalent in position. 

(I) After due consideration 
White could not see that anything 
better than a draw by perpetual 
check would result by venturing 
with the Q to R 8, unless he deter- 
mined to sacrifice his Queen and 
Rook for Black’s two Rooks, Knight, 
and two Pawns. This would have 
been extremely hazardous, though 
very tempting. White, it is true, 
would have had two passed Pawns, 
but Black would have got his Q ht 
P passed also. Liking his posi- 
tion and prospects, White, prudent 
for once, did not venture on an 
ending of this very complicated und 
doubtfal character, It would, 
however, have been so interesting 
that I cannot refrain from giving 
as a variation this probable con- 
tinuation. Suppose: 

32 Q to R 8 ch K to B2 
33 Qt. RP eh K to Qsq 
84 QtoKtS8ch KtoK2 
35 Qt RK Rt. Q 

36 Rt R Ktt. R 

37 Kt. Kt Q to R 8 ch 
388 K to Kt 2 Qt RP 
39 PtooR4 QtoBs 
40 Pio Q Kt 6 (a) QtoQ Kt7 
41 PtooKR5 KtoB2 
42 Rto Kt 3 Qt. Kt P 
43 PtoR6 Q to Kt 7 
44 PtoR7 Q to K ht sy 
45 Kt to K 4 PwRS 

(a) If P to R 5, K to B2ap- 
pears a good reply. White with 
the best play could not win. 

(J) White had long been anxious 
to compel Black to advance this 
Pawn in order to direct his attack 
on Q B6. He now promptly takes 
advantage of the occasion. 

(K) A very fine, not to say in- 
sidious move, as he threatens Q t. 
P ch, and also Kt to B 6, 

(L) A very potent reply, which 
effectually demolished Black's 
chance of a coup. He could not 
afford to take the Kt, for: 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

120 LONDON CHESS 

ee Qt. Kt 
40 Qt. Q Rt. P ch 
4. Kt. R Kt to B 6 ch 
42 K to Kt 3 Ktt.Q 

43 K to Kt 4, and should win 
easily. 

(M) Well played: bringing 
matters at once to an issue. 

(N) The finishing stroke. 

TOURNAMENT. 

This game for the last 40 moves 
engayed nearly the undivided and 
continuous interest of the large 
company present. Blackburne 
played with remarkable ingenvity, 
and made several very clever at- 
tempts to force the game, but Bird 
was in good form, and played—as 
he occasionally does—with com- 
mendable patience and accuracy. 

ee 

Game 78, played on the 17th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 

J, H. BLackBURNE. J. Maso, 

1PtoK4 PtoK 3 

2PtwQ4 PtoQ4 

3 KttoQB3 KttoK B38 
4 BtoK Kt5 Bto K 2 

5 Bt. Kt Bt. B 

6 Kt to B3 PtQR3 

7QtoQ2 Kt to B3 

8 Castles P toQ Kt 4(A) 

9 PtP Pt. P 
“10 R to K sq ch Kt to K 2(B) 
1l Bt Q3 Castles 

12 PtoK R4(C) PtoQh3 
13 Kt to Kt 5 Bt. Kt 

14 PtB Kt to Kt 3 
15 RtoR2 PtoK B4 
16 QRto R sq Q to Q3 

17 Rt. P BtoQ2 

18 Pto K Kt 3(D) K to B2 

19 Kt to K 2 R to R sq (E) 
20 Rt R t. KR 

21 Rt KR Kt t. R (PF) 
22 KttoB4d P to Kt 3 
23 Qto K s K to Kt 2 

24 Qto K 5ch(G) Qt. Q 

25 Pt.Q K to B2 
26 PtoR4 K to K 2 
27 Pt. P RPt.P 
28 PtoQB3 Bto K3 
29 K toQz K to Q2 
30 KtoK 3 Kt to B2 
31 htt. Kt P Kt t. Kt P 
32 KttoR4 Kt to K 5 
33 KttoB3 K to K2 

White. Black. 
34 Kt toQ4 BtoQ2 
35 Bt. Kt QPt.B 

36 P toQ Kt 4(H) Resigns. 
[The notes are by Mr. Mason. ] 

(A) Rashly, and at the same 
time feebly, seeking to attack when 
defensive measures were alone per- 
missible, 

(B) 10 B to K 3 would have 
been; better; to be followed by 11 
Castling, in ease White answered 
with 11 Kt t. Kt P. 

(C) But in Castling under the 
circumstances Black perpetuates a 
blunder of the most fatal descrip. 
tion, as the attack now so speedily 
and successfully organised and car- 
ried out by Mr. Blackburne clearly 
shows. 

(D) Preventing Black from occu- 
pying Bishop's fifth with Queen, 
which he had some thoughts of 
doing after having played his 
Bishop to Queen’s second, But 
had Black plaved 17....QtoB 
5, then 18 ito RSch, K to B2, 19 
Rt. Reh, Kt. 8, 20 Rto R 8 ch, 
K to K or B 2, 21 Q t. Q, Kt t. Q, 
22 Bt. B P, and should win with- 
out much difficulty. 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 121 

(E) These exchanges were neces- 
sary, as in & move or two more 
White would have been able to 
force away Black’s Knight from 
Knight’s third, whereupon the 
power of the doubled Rooks should, 
and no doubt would, have proved 
entirely irresistible, 

(F) But for his inability to bring 
this Knight into good and speedy 

play Black would have some chance 
of drawing, even now. 

(G) The right move. 24 Q to 
R sq would have led to nothing, 
except perhaps the recovery of some 
of his lost ground for Black. 

(H) After this there was nothing 
for Black but resignation, as the 

uaresat Bishop's fourth and King’s 
fifth were no longer defensible. 

Game 79, played on the 28th of May. 
TRREGULAR OPENING. 

White Black. 

J. Mason J. H. Bracknunne. 
1PtcQ4 PtK3 
2KttoKB3 Ktto K B38 
8 BtoB4 PtoQ4 
4PtoK3 B to Q 3 (A) 
5 Bto Kt3(B) Castles 
6 BtoQ3 Kt to K 5 (C) 
7 Bt. Kt Pt. B 
8 K Kt toQ2 PtoK B4 
9 Castles (D) Kt to B3 
10 Bt. B Pt..B 
ll KttoQB3 PtoQ4 
12 PtoB4 P to Q Kt3 
13 PteoQR3 BtoR3 
14RtoB2 R to B sq 
15 Kt to Bsq(E) KttoR4 
16 Q to K sq QtoRd 
17 Pto K Kt3 () to K2 
18 Kt to Q sq RtoQB 2(F) 
19 Pto Q Kt4 Kt to BS 
20 PtoQR4 BtoBs 
21 PtoB3 BtoQ2 
22 Kt toQ2 KR to QBsq 
23 R to Kt 2 B toK sq 
24 Kt t. Kt Rt. Kt 
25 PtoK R3(G) KtoR eq 
26 PtoR 5 P to Q Kt 4 
27 QRwR2 B to Q2 
28 R(R2)toK B2 R(B5)toB2 
29 RtoK R2 K to K Kt sq 
30 PtoR4 P to R 4 (H) 
3l RtoQB2 R(Kt) toQBsq 

White. Black. 
32 QtoK 2 B to K sq 
33 Rto K B2 
Drawn game. 

[The notes are by Mr. Mason. ] 

(A) At some time or other in this 
opening, Black finds it convenient 
thus to oppose Bishops, so perhaps 
the sooner he does so the better. 

(B) 5 B to K Kt 5 was pre- 

ferable. 

(C) A bold move, and, as things 
go, a good one, 

(D) But this can be in no wise 
commended, as it is downright bad 
play. Black’s centre Pawns now 
become very strong, his King’s 
quarters secure from all attack, and 
whatever disadvantage he laboured 
under as second player wholly dis- 
appears. 9 Kt to B 4 was the 
obvious and correct move for White, 
and would have given him a far 
better game than follows from the 
move adopted. 

(E) White is now on the defen- 
sive, pure and simple. 

(F) Perhaps 18 ....B t. Kt 
was better. At any rate, it soon 
becomes a prime object with Black 

| from 
NIVERSITY 

if 

PRINCETON U 

122 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

to exchange Bishop for Knight, 
and a necessity with White to pre- 
vent it. 

(G) To be able to shut out the 
Bishop in case he tried to put in 
an apppearance in the neighbour. 
hood. 

(H) As long as this syuare was 
open to his Bishop, Black had a 

chance to win ; but, in thus closing 
it, he at once reduces the position 
toadraw. With his Bishop blocked 
in, Black can make no change in 
the situation except at a sacrifice ; 
and, in like manner, although his 
Knight is free to enter the opposing 
lines at various points, White can 
effect nothing except at a risk too 
great to be undertaken. 

Game 80, played on the 30th of May. 

PHILIDOR. 
White. Black. White. Black. 

J. H. Brackasurye. J. Mason. 34 Pt. P Pt.P 
1PtoK4 PtoK4 35 RtoK Ktsq PtoK Kt5 
2 K KttoB3 P to Q 3 (A) 86 Rt. P Kt to K 2 
3 BtoB4(B) Btok2 37 Bto Kt 5 Kt to Bsq (J) 
4 Castles K Kt toB3 38 RtoR4 K to Kt sq 
5 PtoQ3 Castles 39 R to Raq RtoR2 
6 Kt to B3 Kt to B3 40 RtoK Ktsq KtoB2 
7 KttoK2 PtoQR3 41 BtoR4 R to Kt 2 
8 Kt to Kt 3 KttoQR4 42 R to Q Rsq Rto R2 
9 Bto Kt3 Ktt. B 43 Rto K Raq Rto Kt 2 
1ORPLKt PwBs) 44 BB? Kt to K 2 
11 QtoK2 Kt to K sq 45 BtoK3 Kt to B3 
12 Kt to Q2 Kt to B2 46 R to Raq K to K 2 (K) 
18 Kt to Bd Kt to K 3 47 RtoK Ktsq KtoB2 
14 Kt to BS PtoQ Kt4(D) 48 RtoKt6(L) RtoKt3 (M) 

15 Kt to Kt 6(E) Qt. Kt 49 P to Kt 4 Rtok3 
16 Kt t. Bch K to R sq 50 Pt. P PtP 
17 Qto RS Q to Q sq 51 Bt. P R to R7 ch 
18 Ktt. B Qt. Kt 52 K to Kt 8 RtoR8 
19 PtoK BA P to B 3 (PF) 58 K to Kt2 Kt to Kt sq 
20 PtoBS Q to K sq 54 Rt. R Ktt.R 

a Lah a ha 55 BtoQ6(N) Kw B3 

22 PitoBs(G) Kt toQsq 56 K to Kt3 P to Kt 3 

23 Bto K 3 KttoB3 57 Pt. P Kt.P 

a Ew RS rioQks 58 PtoB4 Pt. Pch 
25 RtoR2 K to Kt sq 59 Kt. P K to Kt 4 
cha pak 60 Bt. P Resigns. 

27 KtoQ2 RtoR3 
2 PtK Kt4 PtR3 
29 PtoR4 K RtoQRsq [The notes are by Mr. Mason.] 
30 Kto B2 P to R 5 (H) 

31 Pt. P Rt. P (A) This once popular defence, 
32 Rt. KR Rt. R the favourite of the great Philidor, 
83 PtoKt5(I) RPtP is now become nearly obsolete. 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES, 125 

Wanting in boldness, it affords little 
scope for counter-attack, and im- 
poses certain other restrictions, the 
effects of which remain long after 
the Opening proper is past and 
done. 

(B) 3 P to Q 4 is generally con- 
sidered best here, but it is doubtful 
whether it really possesses any ad- 
vantage over the text move, 

(C) To prevent White playing 
P to Q 4, but not good all the 
same. 

(D) 14... . Kt to Q 5 would be 
well answered by 15 Kt t. Kt; then, 
no matter how Black retook, 16 P 
to B 4 would give White a fine 
game. 

(E) A strange manceuvre. But 
the exchanges ensuing rather fa- 
vour Black, in so far as they tend 
to simplify the position. 

(F) 1@19.... Pt. P, 20 Bt. P, 
Kt t. B, 21 R t. Kt, &e.—that 
Black would have much the worst 
of it is evident from the nierest in. 
spection. 

(G) In reply to 22 P t. P, Black 

would, of course, play 22....QP 
t. P, with, if anything, the better 
game. 

(H) This may have been some- 
what premature, but it is not eusy 
to point to anything more satis- 
factory. 

(I) White's attack here is much 
more serious than might appear, 
or be supposed, from the nature of 
the forces remaining on the field. 

(J) It will easily be seen how 
37....Kt t. P would have lost 
him a piece. 

(K) An error, as presently ap- 
pears. But the position was an 
extremely difficult one to defend. 
46....K to Kt sq was the cor- 
rect play. 

(L) Now White wins a Pawan, 
play as his opponent may. 

(M) If 48 ....RtoQ 2, 49B 
t. P follows, of course. 

(N) Black might well have re- 
signed at this point, as, owing to 
the situation of his Knight, be was 
virtually a piece to the bad. 

Game 81, played on the 29th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. 
J. H. Bracksrres. 

White. 

A. B. SkrpworrTs. 

1 K Ktto B38 (A) Pio kK 3 
2PtoQ Kt3 Bto K 2 

8 Bto Kt 2 BtooB3 
4PtoQ4 Pio Q4 
56 PtoK 3 Kt to K 2 
6 BtoQ3s Castles 

7 PtoB3 (B) Pt QKt3 
8 QKttoQ2 BtoR3 

9 PtoB4 Pto Kt3 
10 Castles PtoB4d 
ll QtoK2 Q Kt to B38 

White. Black. 
12 PteeQR3 Pt. BP 
13 Bt BP Bt. B 
14 Ktt. B i nd ra eg 
16 K Rto Q sq (C) PtoK4 
16 Pt. P rt 
17 QtoK 4 R to K aq 
18 Bt. P Ktt. B 
19 Kt t. Kt KttoB4 
20 Qto Kt 4(D) Ktt. Kt 
21 KttoK3 PtooKR4 
22 QtoR3 Q to B sq 
23 Qt. Q QRt.Q 

riginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

124 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
26 OLR to Kt sy Kt to K 7 ch 
25 K to B sy Kt to B6 

Resigns. 

(A) Kt to K B 3 as first move 
for opening player was introduced 
by Zukertort in his match with 
Blackburne, and will, of course, 
continue to receive the attention 
which every invention emanating 
from that great muster so justly 
deserves. Frankly, however, though 
with all diffidence and respect, I 

rd it as inferior to advancing 
either of the four centre Pawns, 

my main reason being that in be- 
ginning with either Kuight a maxi- 
mum of option is allowed to the 
second player in regard to the 
management of his Pawns, 

(B) In this position I should 
have commenced an attack on the 
King's side, commencing with P to 
K R 4, Kt to Kt 5, &e. 

(C) The Queen’s Rook played 
here would have been better. 

(D) Quite useless, Kt t. Kt was 
less disastrous, but it is bad enough 
in any case. 

+ 

Game 82, played on the 31st of May- 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White. Black. 
J. H. Boacksurne. M. TcHnicorin. 
1 Pto K 4 P to K 4 
2K KttoB3 Q Kt to B38 
3 BtoB4 BtoB 
4PtcQB3 Kt to B3 
5 P to Q 3 (A) PtoQ3 
6 Bto K 3 B to Kt 3 (B) 
7QKttoQ2 BtoK3 
8 QtoK 2 Q to Q 2(C) 
9 BtoQ Kt 5 PtoQRS 
10 Btu R4 Bt. B 
11 Pt. B Castles, K R 
12 PtoQ4 P to Q Kt 4 
13 Bto B2 Bto Kt 5 
14 Castles, K R Q) BR to K sy 
15 PteeQR4(D) KttoK 2 
16 RPt. P BRPtP 
17 RtoR5S5 PtoB3s 
18 K BR to BR sq Kt to Kt 3 
19 Rito R7 Q to B sq 
20 PtoQ5 Pt. P 
21 Qt.P Bt Kt 
232 Pt. B P&tiF? 
23 Bt. P Kt t. B 
24 Kt t. Kt Ktto R5 
25 QtoK 2 Q to B4 
26 Rto K B sy RtoK 3 
27 Kt to Kt 3 Qto R6 

White. Black. 
28 Rto B2 P to B 4(E) 
20 Q to B sq Qt. Qch 
30 Ktt. Q PtoBd 
31 PtoK 4 R to Kt 3 ch 
32 K to Rsy R to Kt 4 
33 Kt to Q2 R to B3 (F) 
34 R to R sq K to B2 
35 P to Kt4 K to K 3 
36 Pto kt 5 K to Q2 
37 Kttu B4 K KR to Kt 3 
38 KttoKtGch KtokKk3 
89 Kt to @) 5 Rto BS 
40 RtoR7 Kt to Kt 3 
41 Ket. ht Pt. Kt 
42 P to Kt 6 Kt to K 2 
43 P to Kt7 Kt to BS 
44 KRto R8 Resigns. 

(A) Bird usually plays P to Q 
Kt 4 at this point, and he adopted 
it against Englisch, Rosenthal, and 
Zukertort, gutting an excellent game 
in each case. Winning of the two 
former, but losing to the cham- 
pion in the game of 86 moves and 
10 hours. No other player has 
cared to venture on this line of 
play, and Blackburne discards it. 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE'S GAMES, 125 

The form of début will, however, 
receive greater attention than it 
has hitherto done. In the hands 
of Zukertort, with his splended 
management of passed Pawns, it 
would, I think, prove very for- 
midable. 

(B) Against Bird, Zukertort at 
once captured the Bat K 3. The 
move in the text, however, of B to 
Kt 3 is still considered better than 
taking the B, and had the high 
authority of Buckle and Lowenthal, 
both great masters and judges of 
policy in such positions. 

(C) Castling would have been 
better—in fact, to this move may 
be traced the subsequent inferiority 
of Black’s position, because, after 
advancing P to Q Kt 4at move 12, 

the Queen's side is left exceedingly 
weak. 

(D) Well played. Mr. Black- 
burne takes advantage of the weak 
point in his opponent’s position 
with his usual skill and judgment. 

(E) This move was very unwise, 
as it enabled White at once to 
change Queens. Black, by playin 
R to K Kt 3, would still “theintate 
some attack. 

(F) Black has now left his 
Queen’s side entirely unguarded, 
and White's passed Pawn, supported 
and backed up by the Knight, 
must win. P to Q 4 at this point 
would have been much better play. 
The two Black Rooks would then 
have bad free action, and by careful 
play Mr. Tehigorin might have 
secured a draw. 

Gume 83, played on the lst of June, 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White. Black. 
J. Hf. Brackncrne. S. Winawer. 
1PtK4 P to K 4 
2K KttoB3 Q Kt to B3 
3 BtoB4 BtoB4 
4PtoB3 PtoQ8 
5 Castles KttB3 
6 PtoQ4 PtP 
7PtP Bto Kt 3 
8 KitoB3 B to Kt 5 
9 BtoK8 Castles 
10 PtooK R38(A) BtoK R4 
ll PtoK Kt4 B to Kt 8 
12 Bto K Kt5 PtoK R3 
13 BtoR 4 BtoR2 
14 Pto Kt5 Pt. P 
18 Bt. P QtwQ2 
16 Bt, Kt Pt.B 
17 KtoR2 K to R sq 
18 RtoK Ktsq RtoK Ktsq 
19 Qt Q2 QtoK 2 
20 Q to R 6(?) (B) Ktt. P 
21 KttoK R4 PtoB3 

White, Black. 
22 BtoQ2 PtoKB4(!)(C) 
23 K to R sq Rt. R ch 
24 Rt. R R to K Kt sq 
25 Rto Kt 2 P to Q 4(!) 
26 Pt. BP Q to K 8 ch 
27 KtoR2 B to B 2 ch 

(?) (D) 

28 PtoB4 Qt. K Kt 
29 Rt Reh(E) KtR 
30 Qt.Q Kt to B 6 ch 
31 K to Kt3 Kt t. Q 
82 K t. Kt K Bt. P 
33 P to Kt 3 B to K 4 
34 Kt to K 2 K to Kt 2 
35 K to Kt 4 PtoB3 
36 Kt to Kt sq BtoK Kt aq 
87 Kt to B3 BtoB6 
38 Kt toR 4 PtoB4 
39 Kt to Kt 6 Pto BS 
40 Pt. P P'¢..P 
41 BtoK 4 P to Kt 4 
42 KttoB4 BtoK 4 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

126 

LONDON CHESS 

TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. (C) A terrible move for White, 

483 KttoK6ch KtoR3 threatening to capture Knight with 
44 K to B3 BtoK Bb Queen, regaining (with & pleve to 
45 Bto BG B to R4ch the good) by check at B 6. 
Fe ee e ao a (D) Truly remarkable that 

. KtwQ2 R Ns Q8 Winawer failed to follow up his 
- B toQ 3 BtoK B6 previous fine play. There is here 
50 B ey Bto K Kt 7 an easy mate in six moves. 

Drawn game. SF was Kt to B 6 ch 
A) Anderssen against Staunton, a8 Ks t. Kt Rt, Bch 
: 29 Kt. R Qt. P ch 

1851, played Q to Q 8 here, sub- 

caaat ; 30 K to Raq Q t. Kt ch 
mitting to the doubled Pawn in 

St King’s Knight’ 81 K to R2 Q to B7 ch 

ew a a ee 32 K to Rsq QtoKt 8 mate. 

(B) This move appears to have (E) Saving the piece. After this 
been uusound. White could not by careful play White is enabled 
afford to sacrifice Q P. to draw. 

a 

Game 84, played on the 2nd of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White Black. 
8S, WINAWER J. H. Buackstrye. 
1PtK4 PtoK 8 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 KttoQB3 B to Kt 5 (A) 
4 Pt. P Pier 
5 BtoQ3 K Kt to B3 
6 PtoQR3(B) Bt. Kt 
7PtB {9 Castles 
8 Kt to Kt to B3 
9 PoQBe Pie 
10 Bt. P BtoB4 
11 Castles Kt to K 5 
12 BtoQ3 R to K sq 
13 PtoQ B3 QtoR5 
14 Kt to Kt 3 B to Kt 3 
15 Bt. Kt Bt. B 
16 KR to K sq BtoQ4 
17 RtoK 3 Et, E 
18 Bt. R (D) KttoR4 
19 QtoR4 Kt to B 5 
20 QtoQ7 Q to Q sq 
21 QOt.Q Rt Q 

White. Black. 
22 BtoB4 PtoQB3 
23 KttoBd5 R to K sq 
24 Kt to K 3 PtoB3 
25 Kt t. Kt Bt. Kt 
26 Bto K 8 KtoB2 
27 Rto Kt sq PtoQ Kt4 
28 PtoR3 PtoQR4 
29 R to K sq Rto K 8 
30 PtoB3 K to K 2 
31 KtoB2 P to Kt 4 
32 PtoKR4 PtoR3 
33 P to Kt 3 K toB2 
34 B to Q2 Rt. R 
35 Bt. R Pt. P 
36 Pt. P PtoR4 
37 K to K 8 KtoK 8 
38 B to Kt 3 

Drawn game. 

(A) This move, T believe, is op- 
posed to the theory of the French 
Opening, where the policy should 

iMmait 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES, 127 

be to keep the centre of the position 
as strong as possible—vide games 
Steinitz v. De Vere and Blackburne 
v. Neumann, already referred to. 

(B) Exceedingly tame and weak. 

Kt to K B 3 at once should have 
been played. 

(C) This loss of time equalises 
matters. 

(D) Another draw impending. 

Game 85, played on the 15th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
J. H. BuackBURNE. S, Wivawezr. 
1PtK4 PtoK3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 QKttoB3 BtoQKt5(A) 
4 PtP Pt. P 
5 Kt to B3 K Kt to B3 
6 BtoQ3 Castles 
7 Castles B to Kt 5 
8 KttoK 2 Bt. Kt(B 
9PtB Kt to R 4 (C) 
10 Kt to Kt 8 Kt t. Kt 
ll BP t. Ke Bt.Q3 
12 K to Kt 2 PtooK B4 
18 R to R sq P to K Kt 3 
14 PtoQB4(!)(D) PtoQB4 
15 Pt. BP Bt. BP 
16 Pt. P BtoQ3 
tt rd Kt to Q2 
18 BtoK 3 R to QB sq 
19 Bto Kt 3 PtoKt3(?)(£) 
20 BtoQ4 Q to Kt 4 
21 Pto B4(!) (F) QtoQ sq 
22 Rt. P (!) Kt toB3 
23 Rt. P RtoK B2 
24Rt.R KtR 
25 Qto K2 Q to K sq 
26 Q to K 6 ch Qt.Q 
27 Pt. Qch K to K 2 
28 Rto Rsq PtoQ Kt4 
29 Bt. Kt ch Kt. B 
30 RtoR7 Rto B2 
3L RtoR8 P to Kt 5 
32 RtoQ8 BtoK2 
33 BR to Q sq RtoB3 
34 PtoB3 RtoQ 3 
39 BtoQ5 R to Q sq 
36 K to B sq R to K Rsq 
37 RtoQ2 Rto R8ch 
38 K to Kt 2 RtoQB8 

White. Black. 
39 Bto Kt 3 RtoQ Kt8 
40 P to Kt 4 K to Kt 2 
41 K to Kt 3 R to Kt 8 ch 
42 KtoR2 R to Kt 8 
43 BtoB 4 RtoQB8 
44 P to Kt 8 K to B sq 
45 K to Kt 2 R to K 8 
46 B to K 2 BtoB4 
47 BtoB4 BtoK 2 
48 RtoQ7 RtoQR8 
49 RtoR7 RtoQs8B 
50 Pt. P Pt. P 
51 RtoR5 K to K sq 
52 Rt P R to Q 7 ch 
53 K to Kt 3 Rt. P 
54 B to Kt 5 ch K to Q sq 
55 Rto Q5ch K to B2 
06 BR to Q7 ch K to Kt3 
57 Rt. B Kt. B 
58 PtoBSd Resigns 

(A) Bad, as stated in last game, 
and Mr. Blackburne replies to it 
with judgment. 

(B) Very unwise, one Bishop out 
or play and the other changed 
off. 

(C) The entire scheme of Win- 
awer is wrong ; it was useless play- 
ing the Kt here unless it could be 
followed up with Q to RB 5. 

(D) Beautifully played, 

(E) Pte B5 might have given 
Black a little show. 

(F) Again very effective. Mr. 
Blackburne’s play throughout is 
very fine. 

| tre 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

128 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Game S86, played on the 4th of June. 

TRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
G. H. Mackenzix. J. IL. Brack norne. 
1PtoeQB4 P to K 3 
2 PtoK3 Ktto K B3 
3 KttoK B3 P to Q Kt 3 
4 PtoQ4 B to Kt 2 
5 Bto Q3 P to () 4(A) 
6PtP P t. P (B) 
7 Castles BtoQ3 
8 KttoB3 Castles 
9 BtoQ2 Q Kt toQ 2(C) 
10 R to B sq Kt to K 5 
11 Kt to Q Kt 5 B to BS (0) 
12 Bto K sq Q Kt to B 3(?) 
13 Kt t. B (BE) Bt. B 
14 Ktt. P Rt. Kt 
15 Qt. B Kt to Kt 5 (F) 
16 PtoK R83 R t. Kt(?) (G) 
17 Pt. B QtoR5 
18 BPt. Ktat Kt5 Qt. RP 
19 QtoK 2 R to K B sq 
20 PtoK B38 Kt to K Kt 4 
21 PtoB4 KttoK 5 
22 Qt B83 QtoR3 
23 Rt. P QtoQ3 
24 RtoB2 Pto K Kt 4 
25 PtoBd PtoK R4 
26 Pt. P K to R2 
27 Rto Kt 2 Resigns. 

(A) This move appears to me to 
be injudicious; it has a tendency 
to enable the opponent to shut out 
the Q B, which remains, for a time 
at least, out of play. 

(B) Rather than impede the ac- 
tion of the Q B, I would have taken 
with the Q; in fact, I can see no 
objection whatever to doing so. 

(C) This appears to me objec- 
tionable, except upon the supposi- 
tion that it can be played to K B 3 
with advantage to support K Kt at 
K 5, and this cannot-be done in the 
present case. 

(D) Undoubtedly weak. There 
ap a lack of decision or object 
in Mr. Blackburne'’s play quite un- 
accountable; he has now nothing 
better than to take the Kt at the 
next move, which, indeed, in this 

ition, is more valuable than the 

; he, however, omits to do so. 

(E) The gain of a Pawn by this 
move is so easy to be seen that it 
is strange Black did not at once 
provide for the contingency. 

(F) If Black submitted to the 
exchange of his two Bishops and 
the loss of a Pawn under the belicf 
that he could get any advantageous 
attack through having his B file 
open he laboured under a miscon- 
ception. 

(G) This appears reckless; at a 
glance it could be seen that there 
was nothing to be gained by this 
sacrifice. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

DLACKBURNE'S GAMES, 129 

Game 87, played on the 5th of Jnne, 
SICILIAN. 

White. Black. 
J. WH. Brackatryr, J. Mortrwer. 
1PtoK 4 PtQB4 
2QKttoB3 PtokK 3 
3 KttoB3 Q Kt to B 3 
4PtoQ4 Pte 
5 Ktt. P PtoQ R3(A) 
6 Bty K2 Kt toB3 
7 Castles B to K 2 (B) 
8 Kt t. Kt Kt Pt. Kt 
9 PtoK 5 Kt toQ4 
10 Kt to K 4 PtoKB4 
ll Kt to Q 6ch(C) Bt. Kt 
12 Pt. B Castles 
13 PtooQB4 Kt to B3 
14 PtoQ Kt 3 B to Kt 2 
15 PtoBsd PtQR4 
16 R to K sq BtoR3 
17 BtoB3 Q to Kt sq 
18 B to Kt 2 Q to kth 
19 R to Q Baq QtokK RS 
20 QteQ2 P to Kt 4 
21 Pto Kt3 QtoR3 
22 PtoK R4 PtoB5 
23 Pt. Et P Qt P 
24 Rto K 5 Qto R3(?)(D) 
25 K to Kt 2 Kt to Q4 
26 Rto KR sq (E) Q to Kt3 
27 Bt. Kt BPtL.B 
28 R(Rsq) toRS5 PtoR3 
29 Q to Q 4 (!) Pt.?P 
30 R(K5)toKtsa) Pt BR 
31 QtoR8ch KtoB2 
32 Rto R7 ch K to K sq 
33 Rto K 7 ch Resigns. 

(A) This move was formerly con- 
sidered necessary to prevent adverse 
Kt a Kt * — was Sones 
ve vourable to White, especial 
ties the very fine game won i 
Morphy from Anderssen. It is, 
however, too slow for modern tac- 
ties, and experience has shown it to 
be no longer essential. The game 
between Sellman and Bird may be 
referred to as an illustration. 

(B) P to Q4should have been 
played here. 

(C) Asarule the effect of this 
check and establishment of either 
Knight or Pawn at Q 6 is very 
advantageous to the player who 
accomplishes it. It is so in the 
present instance. 

Mr. Gattie secured the only 
victory obtaincd from Von Bar- 
deleben, winner of first prize in the 
Vizayanagaram Tournament, by a 
game in some respects similar, The 
moves ran thus; 

Garris. BARDELEBEN. 
1PtoK 4 PtoQ B4 
2KttoQBs kKtt.QB3 
3 KttoK B38 P toK 3 (a) 
4PtoQ4 PtP 
& Kt t. P KttoK B3 
6 Kt t. Kt Kt Pt. Kt 
7 PtoK 5 KttoQ4 
8 KttoK4 PtoK B4 
9 Kt to Q6 ch Bt. Kt 
10 Pt.B Castles 

(a) Bird has adopted P to K 
Kt 3und Bto K Kt 2 here. See 
games Blackburne v, Bird and 
Mackenzie v. Bird. 

In the above-mentioned contest 
Mr. Gattiec played in excellent form, 
and maintained his advantage 
throughout, winning in 57 moves. 

Mr. Mortimer generally imparts 
life and spirit into the play, and 
his games are not the least enjoy- 
able in the Tournament. 

(D) I was sorry to seo Mr. Mor. 
timer misjudge this position, Q to 
K Kt 3 was so evidently much 
stronger. 

(E) Now the ill effects of Black's 
24th move become apparent. White 
has been enabled to gain time by 
thus attacking the Queen, securing 
an easy victory. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

130 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 88, played on the 7th of June, 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White. Black. 

24 K to Kt sq BtoB5 
25 K Rto Kt 2 Pto K Kt4 
26 QtoK 2 PtoB3 
27 Kt to K sq K to Kt sq 
28 Kt to Q3 QtoRS5 
29 P to Kt 3 QtoR4 
30 Q to K sq Rto Q Bsq 
31 Kt to Kt2 RtoR2 
32 KttoBd4 QtoR3 
33 Q to K 2 

Drawn game. (C) 

(A) This is very judiciously 

pares. Black has no alternative : 
e must take the Knight. 

(B) Weak, I think. The Pawns, 
as they stand in the centre, are 
well placed. I should have much 
preforred advancing the Pawns on 
either wing, commencing with P to 
K Kt 4. 

(C) This strikes me as another 
remarkable game to abandon as 
drawn, 

Game 89, played on the 8th of June, 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
J. H. Bracxnvnyr, 8. RosexTHat. 
1Ptok4 PtoK4 
2K KttoB3 Q Kt to B3 
3 Bt B4 Bt Ba 
4PtoB3 Kt to B3 
5 PtoQ3 PtoQ3 
6 Btok 3 B to Kt3 
7QKtt.Q2 KttoK2 
8 Kt to B sq Kt to Kt 3 
9 Qt B2 PtoB3s 
10 Castles Qto K2 
11 Kt to Kt 3 PtoK R3 
12 PtoQ4 Kt to Kt 5 
13 PtooK R38 Ktt. B 
14 Pt. Kt Btok 3 
15 Ktto B5(!) (A) Bt. Kt 
16 Pt. B Kt to B sq 
17 Pto K 4 Kt to Q 2 
18 P to Q 5 (B) PtB4 
19 Bto Kt 5 Castles Q R 
20 Bt. Kt ch Qt B 
21 Pto K Kt 4 () R to Kt sq 
22 RtoR2? Th to Q sq 
23 Rto Kt sy B to Kt 4 ch 
White Black. 
Dn. Noa. J.H, Brack evans. 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
8 QkKttoB3 K Kt to B3 
4 Pt. P Pt. P 
5 Kt to B38 Kt to B38 
6 BtoQ Kt5(?)(A)B to Q 3 
7 Castles Castles 
8 Bto Kt 5 Kt to K 2 
9 Bto Q3 (B) Kt to Kt 3 
10 Rto K sq PtoB3 
11 QteQ2 QtoB2 
12 Pto K Kt 3 BtoQ2 

White. Black. 
13 Q Bt. Kt Pt B 
14 QtoR6 K R to K sq 
15 KttoKR4 BtoK Bag 
16 QtoR5 B to Kt 2 
17 KttoB5(C) Bt. Kt 
18 Bt. B R to K 2 
19 RtR Qt RK 
20 Kt to K 2 R to K sq 
21 BtoQ3 Q to Kt 5 
22 Pto Kt3 Q to Q7 
23 PtoK R4 Ptook B4 
24 QtoB3 Kt to B sq 
25 K to B sq Kt tok 3 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 
26 Qto K 3 
27 Pt.Q 
28 R to Q sq 
29 Bt. Kt 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMES. 131 

Black. 
Qt. Q 

Kt to B 4 

Kt to K 5 
BPt.B 

Drawn game. (D) 

(A) B to Q Kt 5, pinning tho 
Queen’s Knight, as here played, is 
considered bad. It tends to weaken 
the centre, which should be kept 
intact and as strong as possible in 
the French game. Buckle and 
Morphy both condemned the pin- 
ning, preferring the Bishops, as a 

rule, in the opening at K 3 and Q 
3. In practice I find two notable 
games recorded where B was played 
to Q Kt 5 as stated. Blackburne 
adopted it against Neumann, and 
De Vere against Steinitz, but the 
attack in both instances was un- 
successful. 

(B) White has thus taken two 
moves to reach () 3, instead of one. 

(C) B to B 5 would have been 
infinitely better. 

(D) The game was abandoned as 
drawn with needless precipitation, 

Game 0, played on the Oth of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

J. H. Bracksorye. Dr. Noa. 

1 QKttoB3(?)(A) P to Q 4 (B) 
toK 3 

2P Q Kt to B 3 
(?) (C) 

8 Kt to B38 PtoK4 

4 BtoKt5 Bto K Kt5(?) 

5 PtoKR3 Bt. Kt (?) 

6 Qt B Kt to B38 

7PtcQ4 PtoK 5 

8 Qto K 2 B to Kt 5(?) 

9 Castles Castles 

10 Bt. Kt Pt.B 

1l Kt to Q sq Kt to Q2 

12 PwQB4 BtoK2 

13 Kt toB3 Kt to Kt 3 (?) 

14 PtoBS Kt to Q 2 

1 QtoR6(D) PtB4 

16 Qt. BP Rto B3(?)(E) 

17 Qt. Pch K to R sq 

18 PtoB3 PtoB3 

19 QtoB4 ter 

20 Rt. P Q to K sq 

21 BtoQ2 QtoR4 

22 QRtoK Bsq QRtKBsq 

23 Kt to K 2 P to Kt 4 

24 Kt to Kt 3 Q to Kt3 

25 QtoB2 PtoK R4 

26 ktt. BP P to Kt 5 

37 PtP Pui? 

White. Black. 
28 RtoB4 QRto B2 
29 Bto BS RtoR2 
3) Pto K Kt3 QtoR4 
3L Qto Kt 2 Rt. Kt (?) 
32 Kt RK I to Kt 4 
33 PtoQ 5 ch dis. K to Kt sy 
34 BtoQ4 QtoR3 
35 Rt. Beh Qt. RK 
36 Pt. P Kt t. P 
87 Pto BZ (') Resigns, (TF) 

(A) Inferior, as first move for 
opening player, to Kt to K B3 as 
introduced by Zukertort. 

(B) I consider this a very good, 
if not really the best, reply. 

(C) Black should play P to K 4 
here, and if White replied with 
P to Q 4, then P to K 5 would be 
desirable. (a) 

[(a) Kt to K BS seems to me 
most in accordance with the spirit 
of this close opening, in which it is 
bad to play out the Q Kt till the P 
has been played to Q B 4, and this 
constitutes the weakness of Mr. 
Blackburne’s attempt at originality 
in his first move.—Ebprror. | 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

132 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(D) The game is practically over 
already. Q B P must fall, and 
this loss, combined with Dr. Noa's 
otherwise weak opening, renders 
his chance hopeless. 

(E) Contrast Dr, Noa’s play in 

this game with his cautious and 

prolonged resistance in many 

others. Truly Mr. Blackburne had 

mee than his usual good fortune 
ere. - 

(F) If R t. P there is mate in 4. 

—_—. 

Game 91, played on the 12th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 

A. SELLEMAN. J. H. Brackscenr. 
1PtK4 PtoK3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
$3 PtP Pt. P 
4K KttuB3 K KttoB3 
5 Bo Q3 BtoQ3 

6 Castles Castles 

7 KttoB3 Kt to B3 
8 BtoK Ktd Bto K Kt 5 
9BtoK2(A) RtoKsq 
10 Ktt. P Bt. P ch 
11 Kt. B Qt. Kt 
12 Bt. Kt PtB 
13 PtoB3 QtoR4ch 
14 K to Kt sq Pto B4 
15 Q to Q 2 (B) R to K 3 
16 B to Q sq R to Kt 3 
17 QtoB4 R to K sq 
18 Q to R 2 (!) (C) Qt. Qch 
19 Kt. Q(D) Kt to Q sq 
20 Kt to K 5 R to R38 ch 
21 K to Ktsq(?)(E) Bt. B 
22 K Rt. B Kt to K 3 
23 R to K sq Kt to Kt 4 
24 KttoQ3 Rto K 5 
25 PtoB3 QRto RS 
26 KR to K 8 ch K to Kt 2 
27 QRto K sq R to R8 ch 
28 Kto B2 Rt. R 
29 Ktt. R RtoQ3 
30 RtoK5(F) KtoB3 
8L KttoQ3 Kt to K 3 
32 PtoK B4 P to Kt 3 
33 PtoQ Kt 4 PtoB3 
34 P to R 4 (G) Kt to B2 
35 Kto K 3 Kt to Q4ch 
36 K to Q2 R to Q sq 

White. Black. 
37 PtoB4(?)(H) Ktt. BP 
38 Ktt. Kt Rt. P ch 
39 KtoK 3 Kt R 
40 KttoQ3ch Kt. Ktch 
Resigns. 

As in the first game between 
Englisch and Blackburne, the first 
eight moves are identical.] 

(A) Correctly at Sellman 
avoids the trap ibis Englisch fell 
into in a similar position, and gets 
a slightly superior position. 

(B) Mr. Sellman has played with 
commendable care and judgment 
against his very experienced and 
skilful opponent, and I feel satisfied 
that when in good health and form 
his play is much stronger than his 
score in this Tournament would 
seem to indicate. 

(C) Well played. 
(D) Kt t. Q I should havo 
thought preferable. 

(E) Surely King could have been 
safely and advantageously played 
to Kt 3. 

(F) White has an advantage in 
position now, but whether sufficient 
to win against the best play is 
doubtful. 

(G) White should now have 
played ; 

| 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

133 

Black. 

(H) An unfortunate slip which 
White. 

vantage cwing to Black’s weak 
aced another victory, altogether 

QBP. 

unexpected, in Blackburne’s hands. 

BLACKBURNE’S GAMEs, 
pl 
SICILIAN. 

Game 92, played on the 14th of June. 
Black. 

Kt toQ4 
KtoKt2orK2 

KttoQB2 
, with a manifest ad- 

White. 
J. H, Brackacrye. 

+ gee § z a 3 
iowa “tigen © Ao nw FS, PET oow SC Seocrwer 
MM oOmeSeAR Rata mot aa MOM 2. adam de ee ee 
SSMSeus2sssssssssuesstsessssssususssss 
Pat PRP OS Ay iy iy CPR PRY By OPE 9 yO OS Fe On on Ce bt Oe he kb be hh he i 
0 a] 
=) 
Owe FE wham wp oF noe SNOPM aamwomowyA 
OSM AM aM Mee MORO eee emonde eae em MORme 
SMS SSS eS Su ESSsSsSSSSsssEssSsSSussgsSsSZV2egEesZ 

BWIURISISSSLSASSSSSLASessseSsSsenee#weee 

» & 2 sc @ gears F 
al ytd Led bili eo B09 oa Oy a co tS oe AN ON we Pca ca ty 
my S SOOM ROR Ra Mie R UMM SA MMmM SMOmMAM oS 
SSE BSSTSSSSsSsSlSoSsmMassSSsessSssssw 
FOR OOM OR OCR MOMMM AR MAMORMOROCOS 

(C) 

PtoK Kt3(A) 
t 

Pt 

Oo 
ce % Fx 0 7 8 tm 
Fee pce one @« CNok., op ota oo Don eM cot Mice 
Based lnn St Si ap a mmomhumocoosM 
SSSSuFVumsassusesessessessue 

SAM FHONDHCHAMAMONDASHANMAWMOKRDACHNANH DON 
ee ee et at O99 OE ON SI ON GIN OF OI OD OO OD OD OD 09 09 93 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

154 LONDON CILESS TOURNAMENT, 

(A) This move, though unsound, 
appears, when well followed up, to 
lead to an excellent defence. 

(B) Though apparently dange- 
rous this was in reality a well-con- 
sidered and judicious move, White 
would get an inferior game by play- 
ing P to K B 4 on account of 
Black's reply of Kt to Kt 5. 

(C) Black gets the better game 
from this timely move. White 
obviously would foes the exchange 
if he took Q P. 

(D) A capital position for the 
Black Bishop both for attack and 
defence. 

(E) It was now necessary to 
prepare for White’s contemplated 
attack on Queen’s Knight's file. 

(F) By this move Black throws 
away his hardly-carned advantage. 
I can see no satisfactory reply to 
P to K Kt 5. For example: 

1 MB aes P to Kt 5 
44 Pt, Q Kt P (a) Pto Kt6 

45 P to Q Kt 7 Rt. RP ch 
46 Pt. R Rt. RP ch 
47 K to Kt sq BtoQ5ch 
48 K to Kt 2 QtoK Kt 5 
49 QtoK B3 R to R 7, and 

wins. 
The position stood thus :— 

White: K at K Rsq; Qat K B 
sq; Rat Q Ktsq; Rat Q Kt 3; Bat 
Q 5. Pawns at K R 3, K Kt 2, Q 
B 4, Q Kt 4, Q R5. 

Black: K at K Kt 2; 
Rat K Rsq; Rat KK 
4. Pawns at K B 3, K 
Q Kt 3, Q KR 3. 

(a) If White play 44....B to 
K 4 then Black plays RK from R 
to R sq. 

(G) Even now Black by making 
the very simple move of P t. P 
must have won. 

(H) If 60 P to Q 4 White 
queens, and it would still be 
drawn, 

Q 2; 

at 
4,Q 3, 
B 

Game 03, pluycd on the 16th of June, 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. 
IH. E. Binp, 

Black. 
J. IL Buackavrys. 

1PtoK B4(A) PtoK 3 
2KKttoB3 PtoQKt3 
38 PtoK3 B to Kt 2 

4 KitoB3(B) PtwoQ4 

5 PtoQ4 K Kt to B3 
6 Pt QR8 Bto K 2 
7BtoQ3 Q Kt to Q2 
8 Castles Kt to K 5(C) 
9 KttoK 5(D) Castles 

10 Q Ktt, Kt P t. Kt 

ll Bto K 2 Kt t. Kt 

12 BPt. Ke R to B sq 
13 PtoB3 Q to Q 2 (BE) 
14 BtoQ2 PtQB4 
15 RtoB4 B to kt 4 
16 Rto Kt 4 BtokK RS 

White. Black. 
17 Rto Kt 3 PtoB4 
18 Pt.Pep(F) Rt.P 
19 Q to Kt 3 QRtoB sq 
20 R to K sq R to B 7 (G) 
21 QtoQ sq PtP 
22 BPt. P Bt Q4 
23 BtoQ Kt4 QRto B2 
24 Bto R6(?)(H) PtoQ Kt 4(!) 
25 Q to R 5 (?) (1) BtoQB5(!)(J) 
26 P toR3(?) (K) QtoB2 
27 K to R2(?7)(L) K Rto B 4(!) 

(M) 
28 Qt B Qt. Rech 
29 Kt. Q Pt.Q 
30 BtoQ6 R to Kt 4 ch 
31 KtoR4 Rt. P 
382 P to Kt3 Bt K7 
Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE'S GAMES. 135 

White Black. 
33 R to Q Bsq Rto B4 
34 Rto BS K R to Kt 4 
35 Rt. RK Rt. R 
36 PtoR4((N) Bt Q6 
37 PtoRS Rto BG 
38 BtoB5(0O) BtwBS8 
39 Bt. RP Bt. P 
40 Bto Kt8 Rt. P 
41 Bto Kt7 B to B4(!) 
42 B to Kt 3 Rt. P 
43 P to Q 5 (!) R to R 6 
44 PtoQé K to B 2 
45 PtoR6(P) PtoK4(!) 
46 B to Q5ch K to K sq 
47 Bto B6 ch B to Q 2 
48 Bto Kt 7 K to B sq (!) 
49 BtoQ5 Rt. P 
50 Q Bt. P R to R 6 
51 BtoK Kt3 Rt QB6 

Resigns. 

(A) It appears worthy of re- 
mark that neither Steinitz, Zuker- 
tort, nor Blackburne ever open 
with Pto K B4; the first-named 
has, in fact, openly expressed his 
disapproval of it. On the other 
hand, Anderssen approved it, and 
Morphy played it many times, 
especially against Harrwitz. At 
Vienna, in 1873, Anderssen, Paul- 
sen, and Rosenthal, playing in con- 
sultation against Steinitz, Black- 
burne, and Bird, also commenced 
with P to K B 4, and were success- 
ful. I adopt it against Blackburne 
because he never ventures on an 
open game with me, P to K 3 
(commonly called the French), 
which leads to tle most mono- 
tonous and dullest of all games, 
being his invariable reply. In the 
present Tournament I am the only 

layer except Tchigorin (once) who 

s started with P to K B 4, and I 
have found no reason to modify the 
opinion which I have always held 
in its favour. Another most im- 
portant consideration is that it in- 
variably leads to highly-interesting 
games. Steinitz, at Vienna last 
year, when the first prize depended 

on the result, opened with P toQ 4 
against Bird, who replied with P to 
K B 4as second player, 2nd not only 
maintained his ground through the 
Opening, but obtained a winning 
position in the middle game. 

(B) 4 P to Q Kt 3, 5 B to Q Kt 
2, 6 KttoQR3, 7 P to QB4, 
and 8 Q to B 2, is a continuation 
I like, and have frequently selected ; 
recently, however, | have tried Kt 
to Q B 3,as in the present case, 
and have found it to lead to a for- 
ward game well suited to me. 

(C) The question as to the ped 
of planting Kt at K 5, and the 
right moment at which to do it, is 
of vital importance in this form of 
Opening. It often determines in a 
particular degree the character the 
game will assume subsequently. 
In this instance I think that Mr. 
Blaekburne played injudiciously in 
placing it on the square indi- 
cated, as he could not support it 
with his Q Kt at K B3 without 
submitting to the check of adverse 
B at Kt 5, which would seriously 
disorganise his game. 

(D) White played correctly in 
selecting K 5 for his Kt at once, 
and appears to have obtained a 
superiority in position. 

(E) To prevent White Q going 
to R 4, and at the same time free- 
ing his game by getting Rooks into 
communication. 

(F) Q to Q Kt 3 would, I think, 
have been a sound and forcible 
move at this juncture, keeping an 
attack on Black's isolated K P, 
which is weak. If he played B to 
Q 4 in reply, then P toQ B4 would 
still further have improved White’s 

game. 

(G) This move should have in- 
volved Black in difficulties. The 
Rook could accomplish nothing, 
and sooner or later should be com- 
pelled to retire at a disadvantage, 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

186 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(H) White's object was to pre- 
vent Black disturbing his B at Q 
Kt 4 by playing PtoQ R4. Qto 
Q B sq was necessary first, and 
would, inoreover, have been a very 
potent move. 

(I) This is pursuing the attack 
prematurely; it certainly was de- 
sirable to play P to Q Kt 3 to pre- 
vent adverse Bishop reaching f 5, 
and also for the purpose of keeping 
+ gga of the valuable B 
file. 

(J) A most important move, 
which alters the entire aspect of 
the game. White should certainly 
have taken the precautions sug- 
gested in last two notes to have 
prevented it. 

(K) Ill-considered and unfortu- 
nate for White. P to K R4would 
have been infinitely better, 

(L) Again bad; it is difficult to 
understand why White omitted to 
make the obvious move of Q to K 

5, which would force the exchange 
of Queens, and leave only an even 
game. 

(M) This compels White to lose 
the exchange. 

(N) White fights well to retrieve 
the troubles caused by his careless 
25th move. 

(O) This part of the game is 
very pretty, and, indeed, extremely 
critical. 

(P) 45 P to Q 7 would be of no 
avail, for: 

45 PtoQ?7 K to K 2 

46 BtoBG P to K 4 (!) 
This last move is Black’s saving 
clause. 

Nore.—The result of the play 
between Bird and Blackburne was 
one each and a draw. Had the 
former won his second game, which 
he should have done at move 48, it 
would have materially altered the 
relative positions of prize-winners. 

—10—— 
Game 04, played on the 18th of June. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 
: White Black. 
White. Black. 21 Pto B3 Q to Kt 3 
J, H, BLackauune. L. Exciiscu. 22 QtoK B2 P to Kt 5 
1PtoK 4 PtoKk 4 23 PtoQB4 PtoBsd 
2K KttoB3 QKttoB3 24 KttoK4 Kt to Qi 
8 BwoB4 Bto B4 25 QRto Ktsy BtoB4 
4PtoB3 KttoBs 26 K to R sq Pto Kt3 
5 PtoQ3 PtoQ3 27 Rto Kt2 PtoB4 
6 Q KttoQ2 Castles 28 Q to K rq R toQ2 
7 Kt to B sq PtoQ4 29 QRtoQ2 PtoRs 
8 Pt. P Ktt. P 30 QtoB2 Qto R4 
9 Kt to Kt 3 K to R sq 31 Rto Kt 2 R to K B sq 
10 Castles PtoB3 32 PtoK R3 QR to Q sq 
ll KttoR4 Bto K3 33 Kt to R 2 KttoB3 
12 K KttoB5 QtoQ2 34 QRtoQ2 RtoK B2 
13 Bt. Kt (A) Qt. B 85 K to Kt sq Qto Kt 3 
14 BtoK 3 B to Kt 3 36 K to Bsq K to Kt sq 
15 Bt. B RPt.B 37 K to Ksq R to R sq 
16 Ktto K3 QtoQz2z 38 Kt to B sq KRtoR2 
17 QtoB2 KR toQ sq(B) 39 R to Kt 2 B to Q2 
18 K R to Q sq PtoB4 40 K Rte Q2 KttoQsi 
19 K Ktto Bsq Qto B2(C) 41 KttoR2 
20 P to Kt3 PwQ Kt4 Drawn gaine. (D) 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BLACKBURNE'8 GAMES. 137 

(A) Q to K B 3 appears to me 
stronger than taking the Knight. 
By the move made Blackburne 
leaves his Q P weak. 

(B) P to K B 4 looks tempting, 
but is not nearly so strong as the 
move in the text. 

(C) This move is very serviceable 
to Black, as it compels White to 
play P to Q Kt 3, leaving his R P 
iable to attack, as it cannot now be 
advanced, 

(D) When the game was aban- 
doned as drawn it will be observed 
that 26 pieces remained on the 
board, the forces being exactly even 
with the exception of the small 
percentage of cxtra advantage 
commonly (but we believe erro- 
neously) supposed to attach to a 
Bishop above a Knight. White has 
lost his two Bishops and one Pawn, 
and Black has lost a Bishop, Knight, 
and Pawn, making in all six pieces 
removed from the board. Looking 

at the nature and interest of the 
position, it may well be asked, Is 
this a satisfactorydraw? We con- 
sider not, our objection being to 
the principle. It is unn 

to go very fully into the merits of 
the game. From this point of 
view, however, we contend that 
Black had a sufficient advantage 
in position to justify a demand that 
the game should be continued. To 
pass aud say nothing of White's 
constrained position, his Queen's 
Pawn alone should, I think, entail 
the loss of the game to him, ad- 
mitting the best play on both sides. 
In future Tournaments a rule as 
follows would, we believe, be salu- 
tary :—That, at the request of one 
or more players interested in the 
competition, the Committee of Play 
May require, or express an opinion, 
that any particular game to which 
attention has been called should be 
proceeded with, 

Game 95, played on the 20th of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black, 

B. Exauisen. J. H. Biracknuryg. 
1PwQ4 PtoK 3 
2Pt.QB4 K Ktto B38 
3 Q Ktto B3 BtoQ Kt5(A) 
4 BtoQ2 Castles 

5 K Ktto B3 PtoQ Kt 3 
6 PtK3 B to Kt 2 

7 Bt K2 PtoQ4 

8 Castles Q Kt to Q2 
9 Ktt. P Kt t. Kt 
10 Pt. Kt BtoQ3 
ll Pt. P Pt. P 
12 Kt to K sq Kt to B3 
13 PtoB3 Kt to Kt 5 (B) 
14 PtoB4 Kt to B3 

15 KttoQ3 Kt to K 5 
16 BtoK B3 Q to K sq 
17 Bto Ksq Q to Kt 3 
18 Kt to B2 Q R to Q sq 
19 Kt t. Kt B t. Kt 
20 Bt B Qt. B 

White. Black. 
21 QtoB3 Qt. Q 
22 Rt.Q PtoB4d 
23 BtoB3 Pt. P 
24 Bt. P Bt. P (C) 
25 Rt. B Rt. KR 
26 Bt. QKtP Pt. B 
27 Pt. RB RtoQ7 
28 PtoQ Kt3 K to B2 
29 PtoQR38 KtoB3 
30 P to Q Kt 4 PtoQ Kt4 
31 Rto K sq RtwoQ6 
32 Rto Kd Rt. P 
33 Et. P RtoR7 
34 PtoR3 R to Kt 7 
35 KtoR2 R to Kt 6 
36 PtoR 4 P to Kt 3 
37 Pto Kt3 R to Kt 7 ch 
38 KtoR3 PtoR4 
39 K to Kt 7 K to B4 
40 RtoB7 ch K to K 5 
41 RtoB6 K to BG (!) 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

158 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMEN'). 

White. Black. 
2Rt KP R to Kt 8 (1) 
Drawn game. (D) 

(A) I do not like to allow the 
Queen’s Knight to be pinned in 
these close games, and therefore 
prefer playing P to Q R 3 to guard 

against that contingeucy. 

(B) Highly ingenious: if P t. Kt, 
() to R 5 would give Black a win- 
ning position. 

(C) This is lively and pretty, 
though evidently leading up to one 
of Englisch's favourite draws. 

(D) White must play K to R 2, 
and submit to the perpetual check. 

—_—+.2-—— 

Game 96, played on the 21st of June, 

GIUOCO PIANO. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
J... Brackaveaxe. B, Exouiscn. 37 Rto K Kt sy Rt. P 
1PtoK4 PtoK4 38 Rt. R Qt R 
2K KttoB3 Q Kt toB3 39 Q to K 3 Q to Q 4 ch 
3 Bt B4 Bt Be 40 R to Kt 2 Kt to B4 
4PtoB3 Kt to B3 41 Q to B3 ch K to R 2 
5 PtoQs PtwoQ3 42 Qt BG R to K Kt sq 
6 BtoK3 Bto Kt3 43 Q to B7 ch R to Kt 2 
7 QKttoQ2 Castles Resigus 
8BQtoK2(A PtoQ4(B 1 
9 de Kt A ) P peg SAL _(A) This move appears to me 
10 KttoBsy BtoK3 ees Oe Oe, ENE, 
m, ¢ and, in a measure, to account for 
ReEEe EExW | Wuoy abeuee ater 
13 K KttoR4 Kt to K 2 game. 

14 K R to K sq (C) Bto Kt 5 

15 PtoB3 BtoK 3 
16 Q Rto Q sq PtoQsd 
17 Bt. B(D) Pt. B 

18 Pt. P Bt. P 

19 Kt to Bsq (E) Pto K Kt 4 
20 Qto K B2 Pt. Kt 

21 QtP Bt. B ch 
22 Ktt. B K to Kt 2 
23 PtoQ4 Kt to Kt 3 
24 Qto B2 Pt.P 

25 Rt. P Q to B aq 
26 Pto B4 Q BR to Q sq 
27 RtoB4 R to Q 2 
28 PtoK 5 Kt to Kt sq 
29 PtoBd Prt.P 

30 Kt t. P ch K to R sq 
31 Pto K 6 RtoQ4 
32 Pto K Kt4 PtoBd 
33 QRtoK 4 Kt( Kt3)toK 2 
34 R to B4 Kt t. Kt 
35 Pt. Kt Qto B3 
B6 K to KR sq Kt to K 2 

(B) Although second player, 
Black has thus early an appreciable 
advantage in position. 

(C) I cannot see the object of 
this move—in fact, it appears quite 
incomprehensible. 

(D) Resulting in the loss of a 
piece. Apart, however, from this, 
taking B with B when standing at 
K 3 is not usually favoured by great 
players, and certainly mot by Mr. 
Blackburne himself, 

(E) This, again, is quite unin- 
telligible—in fact, Mr. Blackburne's 
play throughout appears unac- 
countable, and not at allin his well- 
known style. Bt. Band Pto K B4 
would have afforded some attack, 
but moving the R from B sq where 
he is useful to K sq appears at once 
to abandon all intention of attempt- 
ing to take any initiative, 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

SECTION IV. 

TCHIGORIN’S GAMES. 

THE NOLES TO THIS SECTION, WHERE NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFIED, 

ARE BY THE REV. W. WAYTE, 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

oe Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TCHIGORIN’S GAMES. 

—E—E 

Game-97, played on the 27th of April. 

SICILIAN. 

White Black, White. Black. 

Dr. Noa. M. Tcnicort, 88 Rt. Kt Qt. R 
1PtoK4 PtoQB4 39 BtoB6 BtoQ 3 
2 KttoK BS KttoQB3 40 Qt. Q Pt.Q 
3 KttoB3 PtoK3 41 K to Kt2 PtoB4 
4PtoQ4 PtP 42 PteK R4 K to B2 
5 Ktt. P Kt to B3 43 Bto Kt 5 KtoB3 
6 Bto K Kt5 (A) Qto Kt 3 44 PtoR5 K to Kt 4 
7 Kt to Kt 3 Bto K2 45 P to R 6(J) B to B sq 
8 BtoQ3 Kt to K 4 46 PtoR7Z B to Kt 2 
9 Castles PtoKR4(B) 47 PtoKt4 PtoBS5 
10 BtoK 3 QtoB2 48 PtoB4 Pt? 
ll PtoB4 Kt fr. K 4 to 49 Bt. P KtoB4 

Kt 5 50 KtoB3 PtoK4 

12 QtoB3 P to K Kt 4 51 BtoQ38eh K to Kt 4 
13 PtoKR3 Ktt. B 52 BtoK 4 K to R5 
14 Qt. Kt P to Kt 5 53 K to Kt2 K to Kt 5 
15 PtoK 5 Kt to Kt sq 54 Bto BG KtoB4 
16 Kt to Kt 5 Q to Kt sq 55 K toB3 P to Kt7 (K) 
17 QtoQ4 Kt to R3 56 BtoK 4ch(!) KtoK3 
18 Kt to Q 6 ch K to B sq 57 Kt. P PtoR4 
19 Kt toQ B5 (C) Qto B2(D) 58 Pt. P Pt. P 
20 P to BS (EB) P to Kt 3 59 PtoR4 
21 Ktfr.BitoK4 Pt. RP Drawn game. 
22 Pt.RP B to Kt 2 ; F 
23 Kt t. B R to Kt sqch (A) This strikes us as a novelty, 
24K toR2 Qt. Kt but not as an improvement. The 
25 RtoK Ktsq(F) Rt. R old-established move here is6 K Kt 
26 Qt.R Kitt. P oes Ore other modes of attack 
9 tto Kt 5 Pp BY ave recently come into vogue— 
pha QuBai. 6 Bto K 2, and 6 Kt t. Kt, Kt P 
29 BtR Qt. K Peh(!) t. Kt, 7 P to K 5, Kt to Q 4, 8 Kt 
30 KtoRsq(H) Kt to Kt 6ch toK 4. The latest theory of the 
81 K to Kt2 Qt. Kt Sicilian Game is briefly discussed 
32 KtoB3 PtoR5 in the British Chess Magazine for 
33 QtoK 3 Q to R4ch April, 1883, p. 126, 
34 K to Kt2 Q to Kt 3 (B) The game now becomes lively 
35 QtoQ3 Kt to B4 ch and interesting. Black aims at 
36 K to R sq PtQ4 planting a thorn in the enemy's 
37 RtoK Ktsq(I) Kt to Kt 6 ch side, and does not trouble himself 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

142 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

either to shelter his own King or 
to get out his Queen’s pieces. 

(C) Threatening 20 Kt t. B, and 
21 Kt t.Q P ch. 

(D) An effectual retort. 
(E) Dr. Noa plays with much 

more spirit in this game than in 
the next, when perhaps he was 
fatigued with hard work on three 
successive days. We admire his 
sureness of tread on the edge of a 
precipice, still disdaining to lose a 
move by placing his King in safety. 

(F) Was this necessary? The 
Knight, of course, cannot move, 
but White might have taken P 
with P, having the resource of Q 
t.Q P in answer to Bto B4. He, 
perhaps, counted on reprisals after 
27 Kt to Kt 5; but the game now 
turns in favour of Black. 

(G) By far the best mode of 
avoiding the mate which White 

now threatened by Kt to R 7 ch. 
The prospects of the unmoved Rook 
are so remote that exchanging him 
for a minor piece and two Pawns 
is putting him to the best use; 
whereas B t. Kt would give White 
a strong attack. 

(H) If 30 K to Kt 2, Kt to R5 
ch, and 31 P t. Kt, with a still 
stronger attack. 

(1) This and giving back the ex- 
change are his best chances for the 
draw. Whether Black could bave 
made more of the end-game is diffi- 
cult to decide : we see no proof that. 
he could. 

(J) White plays very ably for 
the draw. If Black takes P, he evi- 

dently loses another in return by 
B to Q 7. 

(K) A last attempt at getting 
forward the K P. After White’s 

accurate reply the game is clearly 
drawn, 

— 6 

Game 98, played on the 28th of April. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
M. Tcnicorry, Dr, Noa. 
1PtKB4 PtoK B4 
2PtoK3 Kt to K B3 
3 Ktto K B38 Kt to B 3 (A) 
4PtoQKt3 P to K Kt 3 
5 Bto Kt 2 B to Kt 2 
6 Bto Kt 5 Kt to Q Kt sq 
7 KttoR3 PtoQR3 
8 BtoK 2 PtoK 3 
9PtoB4 Castles 
10 Castles Kt to B3 
11 Rto Bsq PtoQ3 
12 Ktto B2 R to K sq 
138 PtoQ4 QtoK 2 
14 PtoQR4 Kt to Qsq(B) 
15 PtoR 5 Kt to B2 
16 Q to K sq Kt to Q2 
17 BtoR38 QtoB3 
18 QO to Kt 3 Ptok4 

White. Black. 
19 QR to K sq P to K 5 (C) 
20 Kt to Kt 5 Kt to Q sq 
21 Bto Kt 2 PtoR3 
22 KttoR3 K toR 2 
23 B to R sq Qto K 2 
24 Kt to Kt 4 Kt toK B3 
25 PtoQd Kt to Q2 
26 Kt to B2 Bt.B 
27 Rt. B Q to Kt 2 
28 K R to Q sq R to K Kt sq 
29 Q Rto B sq Qto K 2 
30 Kt to Q4 Kt to B 2 
3l K to R sq Kt to B38 
32 QtoB2 R to Kt 2 
33 RtoK Ktsy BtoQ2 
34 Q to K sq Q Rto K Ktsq 
35 Qto Kt 4 B to B sy 
36 QR to B sq Kt to Q sq 
37 Qto Bs R to B sy 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TCHIGORIN’S GAMES. 143 
White. Black. (C) Black's last move yielded a 
88 P to Kt 3 Rir. Bto Ktsq momentary prospect of an opening, 
(D) but timi counsels prevail, and 
39 Rto Kt 2 BtoQ2 the game relapses into a block. 
40 PtoQ Kt4 B to B sq (D) It is now evident that 
ee lai Sy = cigs r White intends a breach on Q side. 
42 KttoK B2 2 to kK (i) Still, however, Black prefers to 
< eA 4 ed B 3 await the coming attack as a mere 
45 Bto Kt3 Kt to K eq 5 ta 
46 KR to B sq R to B sq (E) Missing his last chance of a 
47 PtoBib(F) PtP counter-attack on the King’s side 
48 Pt. P Kt to Q sq by P to Kt 4 
49 RtoQ2 RtoB3 : ‘ . 
: (F) Owing to his opponent's 
Eg wpa Ke " - L- 3 (G) tactics White has had ample leisure 
52 Kt fe. Q4toK 6 Kit. Kt H) for making his dispositions. He 
53 Pt. Ke Kt to B 3 now begins the decisive advance. 
54 K to Kt sq R fr. Kt 2 to (@) As the final position shows, 
a 5s Pe “ Kt L P the K would be safer in the corner. 
t to 
56 P res 2 6 (Tt) PtP #1) (H) After more than fifty moves 
57 Qt. P QtR6 and at least six hours’ play this is 
58 Qto B38 QtoK2 only the second exchange of minor 
59 RtoB4 R to Q sq (K) pieces. The game was a trial of 
60 Rt. R RtR patience between the players, 
61 Rt BP Resigns. and remains one to readers and 

(A) In utter defiance of the 
principles of the close game. Com- 
pare Black's 6th and 10th moves. 

(B) Here, as towards the 30th 
and 45th moves, Black aims at 
“doing nothing” until he has a 
fresh hour for deliberation. But 
nothing comes of the renewed 
innings. 

annotators. 

(D) He will not play P to BG 
until he is prepared to follow it up 
with R to B 4. 

(J) 55 P to B 3 may not be satis- 
factory, but it is his best chance. 

(K) 59 R to Kt 2 was no better, 
on account of 60 Kt to B 7 ch. 

Game 99, played on the Ist of May. 
TWO KNIGHTS’ DEFENCE, 

White Black. 

H. E. Brrp M. Torronry. 
1PtK4 Ptok4 
2 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 
3 BwogQB4 KttoK B3 
4 Kt to K Kt 5 PtoQ4 
§ Pi? ttioQR4 
6 PtoQ3(P) (A) PtoK R3 

White. Black. 
7 KttoK B38 PwK 5 
8 QtoK 2 Kt t. B 
9 Pt. Kt BtoQB4 
10 PtooK R3 Castles 
11 Kt to K R2 P toQ Kt 4 
12 KttoQB3 Pt? 
13 Qt. QBP QtoQ3 

imal tre 

PRINCETON UNI VERSITY 

144 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. (B) An unaccountable error of 
4 l 8 judgment. Q t. Kt was, of course, 
2 mie Kt 5 ie 3 = 3 the right move. Then probably 
16 P to Q R4 Ktt. P would ve followed : 
17 Qt. P (B) PtQB3 17 Qt. Kt PtoQB3 - 
18 KttoK Kt4 PtoK B4 18 Qt. P Pt. Kt 
19QtoK6ch KtoR2 I9PwQRS QwB2 
20 Ktt. RP(?)(C) RtoB3 20 Bto K B 4, witha Pawn more, 
21 QtoK5 Pt. K Kt and at least ns good a position as 
22 Pt. QB4 Pt. Kt Black. 
23 KR Pt. P B to Kt 2 (C) Very badly played. Black 
24 Pt. Kt Bto Qs could even in reply win Queen by 
me eke Res Gok, Q BR to K sq and KR to K 2. 
CR Rawe Lonme (D) Bto K 3 would have been 
28 Q to K 8 ch K to R2 fur more forcing, and, in fact, was 
29 RtoQR4 R(B3)toKt3 the only move to prolong the 
30 QtoQKt8 QBt. P(’) contest. 
31 RtoQR6(E) Rt. Pch (E) If Q took Q, then Black 
32 B t. R Qt. Q could mate in 7 moves thus: 
Resigns ear Rt. P ch 
(‘The notes are by Mr. LE.Bird] = ge BER Shee 
(A) This is not the move recom- 34 K to R sq Rt. P ch 
mended by the authorities, but 35 K to Kt sq RtoKt7disch 
should, I think, properly followed 36 K to R sq Rto K 7 dis ch 
up, be quite satisfactory, 37 RtoB3 B t. R mates. 
Game 100, played on the 3rd of May. 
KING'S GAMBIT. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
M. Terraont. A. SRLLMAN, 16 RtoR5 P to Kt 4(°) 
1PtoK4 Pto K 4 17 Bto Kt3 Kt to K 3 
2PtKB4 PtP 18 QtoK 3 PtoR3 
3 Kttok B3 Ptok Kt4 19 KttoB2 Kt to Kt 4 
4BtoB4 B to Kt2 20 BtoQsdb R to Kt sq 
5 PtoQ4 P to Kt 5 (?) 21 Ktto Kt 4 Kt to B 3 (?) 
6 Kt to Kt sq (A) Qto Rb ch 22 Qt. Kt(!) Kt t. B (B) 
7 K to Bsq Ktto QB3 23 Qt. Kt Bto Kt 2 
8 PtoB3 BtoR3 24 Kt toBé Bt. Kt 
9QKttR3 P to R 3 (?) 25 Qt. Bch K to B sq 
10 PtoK Kt3 PtP 26 KRtoBS5 Rto R2 
1l K to Kt2 Bt. B 27 Kt to K2 R to K sq 
12 Qt. B Fur 28 Kt to Kt 3 PioK R4 
13 Rt. P Q to K 2 29 PtoK 5 PtoR5 
14 Qt B4 P to Q3 30 Kt toR5 PtoR 6 ch 
15 Rto K Baq Kt to Q sq 31 K to Kt 3 R to Q sq 
recur 31 iL i 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TCIIGORIN’S GAMES, 145 

White. Black. 
82 Kt to BG RtoR3 
83 Rto Kt 5 R to K R sq 
34 RtoB4 P to R7 
85 QRtP Q t. Kt (C) 
36 Pt.Q P to Q 4 
87 RtoKt8ch RtR 
38 Rt. Bch Kt.R 
39 Kt. P Resigns. 

[Notes by Dr, Zukertort, from the 
Chess- Monthly. | 

(A) White may enter here into 
the Muzio with 6 Castles or 6 B t. 
P, or proceed with Kt to K 5. The 
text move is new, but, of course, 
perfectly safe. 

(B) If 22.... P t. Q, White 
has two lines of play, either of 
which leads to a speedy win: 

Game 101, played on the 4th of May. 

1} 
23 Rt. Reh K to Q2 
24 BtoB6ch KtoK 3 
25 PtoQich K toK 4 (best) 
26 Kt to Q 3 ch Kt. P 
27 RtoKsqeh Kt, Kt 
28 Rt.Q 
II. 
23 Rt. Reh EK to Q2 
24 KttoBé6 
Our own continuation: 
eas Kt t. B (best) 
25 Pt. Kt Q to K 5 ch 
(best) 
96 K to Kt 8 Qt.PatQ4 
27 Ktt. Reh K to K 2 
28 Rt. B 

(C) There is nothing else to stop 
the mate threatened with 36 R to 
Kt 8 ch, &e. 

RUY LOPEZ, 
White Black. White. Black. 
8. Rosgrriar. M. Tourgorix, 23 KttoQs Ktfr.K 210 Q4 
1PtK4 Ptok 4 24 QtoB3 Kt to Q 2 
2KttoKB3 Kt toQB3 25 BtoQ2 PtoK B4 
3 Bto Kt 5 Kt to B3 26 BtoB4 K RtoKsq(D) 
4PtcQ3 PtoQ3 27 Ktto K 5 Kt t. Kt 
5 PtoB3 B to K 2 (A) 28 Bt. Kt ch K to Kt sq 
6 QKttoQ2 Castles 29 Q to Kt 3 Pt. R3 
7 Kt to B sq Bto K 8 30 RtoB3 K to R 2 
8 Kt to Kt 3 PtoQR3 31 QRtoK Bsq PtoB3 
9 BtoR4 P to Q Kt 4 32 QtoR4 Q to K 2 
10 Bto Kt 3 QtoQ2 83 QtoR3(E) RtoK Bsq 
11 Castles K to R sq 34 Qto Kt 3 QtoK 8 
12 Kt to Kt 5 Kt to K Kt sq 35 PtoR 4 RtoB2 
13 PtoK B4(B) Bt. B 36 Qto B2 PtoKR4 
14 Pt. B PtoBs 387 QtoQ2 Kt to Kt 3 (f) 
15 KttoR3 PtoQ4 38 Q to Kt 5 Kt to Q 2 (F) 
16 BPt.P Kt t. P (C) 39 BtoB4 QtoB3 
17 PP Qt.P 40 QtoR6 ch K to Kt sq 
18 KttoB4 QtoB2 41 RtoKt3(!) RtoKt2 
19 PtoQ4 Kt to Q2 42 BR to K aq (! QtoB2 
20 Ktto BS P to Kt 3 43 Rfr. KttoK3 Rt KR2 
21 Ktt. B Kt t. Kt 44 Qto Kt 5 QtoB3 
22 PtoQKt4 Kt to Kt 3 45 RtoKk 6 Qt.Q 
L 
Lilt 1 iL rl 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

146 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White Black. 
46 Bt. Q Kt to B sq 
47 Rt. BP QRtoR2 
48 RtoK 8 K to B2 
49RtoK5(@) KtoKt 
50 PtoQ Kt 3 KRtQB2 
51 Rf KtoB5 RtR 
52 Rt R KtoB 2 
i3 PtoQs Kt to Q 2 
54 Rto K 6 Kt to B sq 
55 Rto B6 ch K to Kt 2 
56 PtoB4 PtoR4 
57 Pt. RP Pt.?P 
58 Pt. P Rt. P 
59 RtoQB6 RtoR2 
60 Bto K 3 R to Kt 2 
61 Bto BS Kt to Q2 
62 BtoQ4ch K to B2 
68 KtoB2(H) Rto Kté6 
64 Rt Q6 Kt to B sq 
65 PtoBS R to Q6 
66 BtoK 3 Rto BG 
67 RtoQ8(D P to B 5 (?) 
68 Bt. P Rt. P (?) 
69 Rt, Kt ch Resigns. 

(A) 5 P to K Kt 3 and Bto 
Kt 2 is the development now pre- 
ferred. 

(B) The attack is well conceived. 
White is determined to open the 
B file for himself only if at all, 

and, therefore, avoids taking the 
Bishop. 

(C) 16 Pt. P would leave him 
with an isolated K P. But the 
text move loses important time. 

(D) He should have taken the 
Bishop, and not allowed it to come 
inat K 5. If he expected to get 
the best of the end-game with 
Knight against Bishop he was 
greatly mistaken. 

(E) Threatening R takes P, and, 
if the Rook were taken, to mate in 
three moves. 

(F) At his last move Black 
would have done better to bring Q 
R into play ; and now, of course, the 
Kt should return to Q 4, to pre- 
vent the B supporting the (. 

(G) White has won the Pawn 
by remarkably fine play, but be 
now loses time. We should have 
preferred doubling the Rooks on 
the Kt. 

(H) Again White does not choose 
the quickest way to win. P to Q 
6 would have been good, P to B45 
perhaps still better. 

(I) P to B 6 wins easily enough, 
but Rosenthal prefers setting a 
trap, into which his opponent falls. 

4 

Game 102, played on the 7th of May. 

SICILIAN. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
8. Winawer. M. Tcnicorim. 11 Pto K 5(D) PtP 
1PtK4 PtoQB4 iP t. 2 Q toQ5ch 
2 KttoK B3 KttoQ B3(A) 13 Bto K 3 Qt. KP 
3 Bto Kt5(B) Pto K3(C) 14 KttoK B3 Q to Q3 
4 Bt. Kt Kt Pt. B 15 Kt to B3 Bt B3 
5 Castles Kt to K 2 16 KttoQR4 Bio Q5 
6 PtoQ3 Kt to Kt 3 17 KtoR sy R to Kt sq 
7 QtoK2 Bto K 2 18 Q Rto Q sq PtoK 4 
8 KttoKs Castles 19 Pte Q@ Kt 3 B to Q2 
9PtKB4 PtoK B4 20 Bto B sq PtoBsS 
10 PteoQB4 PteoQs 21 Kt to K sy Rto B3 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 
92 Kt to B2 

23 B to R3 (BE) 

24 Pt. P 

25 K Rto Kt sq 

ow 

ss 
Aba 
wm BS oo bo 

oo 
te 
s 
-o- 

wwwnww 
NI Ot ne 
ROOREE 
See es 
~-] 
@S 

moo to 

hee BacheeBeoh- Hache @R-ctaohoeh- 1 Pia.) 
sro = 
is) 

ess 

Cm oONWeKOVanaow 
sssrsss 
by td ng oo 

co 
- 
} 

F 
- 
cr 

— 

cag 
~™ = ss 
— 

TCHIGORIN'S GAMES. 

eer s *s 
Ra me 

aoe 
Se os 

oat 
Kd 
RR 

ConmnoO 
— or 

cf o @ 
fc) 
5 

ay 

ssssrrFscss 
= 
eS 

Rome 
or Ot by 

eo 
> 

LON WNLOC TWAS A ROOOAA wh 
9 

147 

(A) 2 P to K 3 is slightly prefer- 
able on account of White’s reply. 

(B) We do not particularly ad- 
mire this move, but it is at least 
better now than when White’s Kt 
is already at Q B 3. The Hand. 
buch gives only the latter variation, 
not that in the text. 

(C) Kt to Q 5 would not be 
good now, we think. 

(D) An oversight, unless White 
purposely counted the isolated 
doubled Pawn as a set-off, but 
wrong anyhow. 

(E) In pursuit of the Pawn 
White overlooks the loss of the 
exchange. 

(F) This loses right off, but we 
fail to discover any satisfactory 
move for him. 

(G) If 37 Q moves, Q to R 5 ch 
wins. 

Game 108, played on the 8th of May, 

SICILIAN. 

Black. White Black. 
M. Tentaonm. 16 Kt toQ6 R to K B sq 
PtoQB4 17 Kit. B R t. Kt 
KttoQB3 18 BtoB3 to K2 
PtoK3 19 Pto K Kt 3(d) RtoQ B2 
Kt to K 2 (B) 20 QtoQ2 K R to B sq 
Pt. P 21 PtoB4 Kt to B sq 
Kt to Kt 3 (C) 22 P to Kt 3 Kt to Q sq (e) 
Bto K 2 23 K R to Q sq Kt to B 2 
Castles 244 PtoQR4(f) RtoQsq 
Bio B4(a)(D) 25 PtoR5 PtP 
B t. Kt 26 Qt. P PtoQ3 
P to B 4 (b) 27 Pt.P Rt.QpP 
R to B 2 (c) 28 Bt. P Rt. Reh 
P to Kt3 29 Bt R PtoK 4 
B to Kt 2 30 Pt. P Kt t. P 
R to Kt sq 31 BtoQ4 Kt to B3 

Inomal tram 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

148 LONDON CRESS 

White. Black. 
32 QtoQich K to R sq 
33 BtoQB3 Q to K sq 
34 BtoK B38 Q to B sq 
35 R to K sq PtoR3 
86 Q to Q6 (g) K to R2 
37 BtoQi Kt to Kt 3 
38 BtoK 6 Q to Kt 2 
39 Bt P Kt to K 2 ch 
40 BtoK 4 Ot? 
41 QtoK 5 Kt to Q 4 (EF) 
42 Bt. Ktch (h) KtB 
43 Q to K 4 ch K to R4 
44 Q to B 5 ch P to Kt 4 
45 Q to R3 ch K to Kt 3 
46 R to K 6 ch K to B2 
47 Qto Bich K to Kt sq 
43 R to K 8, mate 

’ 

(A) That this is the right square 
for the Bishop was first discovered 
by Zukertort; but the move is 
generally deferred until after 4 P 
1 Q4, Pt. PB Ktt. P. 

(B) 4 Kt to Q 5 is here feasible. 

(C) We much prefer 6 P to K 
Kt 3, and 7 B to Kt 2. Black 
would then bave a good prospect 
of throwing forward P to Q 4 and 
clearing his game: compare Mr. 
Hoffer's note (d) as to the weak 
point in the defence. 

(D) Here, too, we think there is 
quite as much to be said in favour 
of P to Q 4as of Pto Q 3. 

(E) Had the Kt, which must 
move to protect the mate, gone to 
any other square, White after B t. 
Kt ch and Q to K 4ch would have 
got a check at K B 4, winning 
the R. 

TOURNAMENT. 

| Notes from The Field.) 

(a) This is a lost move, dividing 
one into two halves. Better would 
have been 9 P to Q 3, and if White 
plays 10 PtoB5, then K Kt to 
K 4, &e. 

(b) The advance of this Pawn 
is not advisable; but it is diffi- 
cult now for Black to find a satis- 
factory defence, as he has already 
compromised his position. With 
11 P to B 4, Black wanted to pre- 
vent P to B 5, but he weakens his 
QP. We have examined 11 Kt 
t. B, but it does not seem satis- 
factory. 

(c) This is the only available 
square for the Rook. If 12 R to 
B 3, then 13 P to K 5, and 12 R 
to K sq would involve the loss of a 
Pawn by13P t. P, Pt. P, 14 Q to 
Q 5 ch, and 15 Qt. BP. 

(d) Confining the movements of 
the hostile Queen. This is just a 
game suited to Englisch’s style. 
He has one object in view—the 
weak point at Q 2—and never lets 
go the thread of his combination. 

(e) Perhaps it would have been 
advisable here to bring the Queen 

- into play with 22 Q to Kt 5. 

(f) Very well timed. P to R4 
would not have been good so long 
as the Kt stood at Q sq, because 
Black could have returned Kt to 
Q B 3, followed by Q to Kt 5, as 
indicated in note (e). 

(g) Theatening Q takes P ch. 

(b) A very elegant finish, In 
fact, the whole game was played by 
Englisch with great precision. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TCHIGORIN’S GAMES. 149 

Game 104, played on the 11th of May. 
EVANS’ GAMBIT. 

White. Black. 
M. Tcuteort, J. Monrruer. 
1PtK4 Pto Kk 4 
2 KttoKB3 Kt toQB3 
8 BtoB4 BtoB4 
4 PtoQ Kt4 Bt. P 
5 PtoB3 BtoR4 
6 PtcQ4 Ft P 
7 Castles PtP 
8 Q to Kt 3 Q to B3 
9 PtoK 5 Q to Kt 3 
10 Ktt. B K Kt to K 2 
ll BtoR3 a 

( 

12 Kt toQ 5 (’) Kt t. Kt 
13 Bt. Kt P to Kt 4 (B) 
14 Q Rto Qsq(C) Pto Ktb 
15 P to K 6(D) BP t. P(E) 
16 Bet. Kt QPt.B 
17 KttoKS5 QtoB4 
18 Ktt. P Castles (F) 

19 KttoK7ch Resigns. 

(A) This was latterly played 
by Anderssen instead of the more 
usual 11 .... Castles. White's 
reply proves it to be insufficient. 
The object is to advance the P to 
Kt 5, and mask the Bishop; but 
there is no time for such waiting 
moves, 

(B) 13 .... Kt to Q sq, as 
played by Mortimer against Zuker- 
tort, may be better, but is still not 
satisfactory. 

(C) This should have proved a 
fatal loss of time; while P to K 6 
at once, as played by Dufresne ina 
game annotated in both the English 
Chess Magazines (Chess-Montily, 
IL. 278, and Britiah Chese Magazine, 
I. 161), yields a winning attack. 

(D) Tchigorin’s combination was 
pronounced unsound, as we are in- 
formed by several leading players 
who analysed it; but we have not 
seen the result of their lucubrations. 

(E) He might safely have taken 
the Bishop, when the following seems 
the most likely continuation: 15 
coos Pt B16 Pt QP ch, B 
t. P, 17 Q toK 3 ch, K to B sq 
(best), 18 Bt. Kt (if Q to B5 ch, 
then, of course, Q interposes), B 
t. B, 19 Q to B 5 ch, K to Kt 
sq, 20 Kt to R 4, B to Kt 3 (!), 
and White, after winning the ex- 
change by Kt t. Q, will remain with 
a lost game. If, instead, 20.... 
Q to B3, then 21 Qt. K B, Q 
t Kt, 22 Qt BP, QRtoKB 
sq (best), 23 Q t. B, and Black can 
fight for a draw by P to K R4 
and R to B 3. 

(F) Preferring the fire to the 
frying-pan. The game was, any- 
how, lost in a few moves. 

White. 

M, Touigorrs. 

—+:4+—_ 

Game 105, playcd on the 14th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

Black. White Black. 

J. Mason, 5 Q Kt to K 2 PtoQ B4 
PtoK 3 6PoQB3 Kttwo QB3 
PtoQ4 7 PtooK B4 Pt. P 
KttoK B3 8 Pt.P B to Kt 5 ch 
Kt to Q2 9 BtoQ2 Q to R4(B) 

riginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

150 

White. 
10 BtoB3 

ll KttoK B3 

12 Qt. Q2 

13 Pto K Kt3 
14 PtoK R4(C) 

15 BtoR3 
16 Castles K R 
ly PEs 

18 Kt to K sq 
19 Rt B38 
20 Q to B x 
21 KttoQ3 
22 

s 

te 
Arey 
ese 

we 

ss 
oe 

S°Grase 
eihad- ba bak © 
» woe 

oo 

s "soe 
—_ 
7 
S, 
~ 

oe 

S 

of ov) 
ane 

— 

= 
RRR ROR 
s 
-_ 

60 K to B3 

61 K to K 3 (L) 

B 
ard 24 
$ 
A 
eo 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Black. 
Kt to B sq 
Kt to Kt 3 
Bto Q2 
R to Q Besgq 
PtoK R3 
Kt(Kt3)toK2 
Bt. B 
Q to B2 
Kt to R 4 (D) 
t 

FO Py Od Pes Ot 
ESSESTS 

TRO RO mR 
> Go 

s 

Ktto Ktsq(G) 

Q to K 2 

Rt P 
Rto KRsq(H) 
QtoR5 

Ktto B4ch(J) 
Kt Pt. B 
P to Kt 4 

a 
set 
rm 

a 
=~ 

roby Ha td 
na 
= 2 

2 ERROR TO RO 
— = 

= 

a 7+ 
Ssserssssers 
co c 
oD 

AR FORK 

& E oo 

SSéSsss 
“1 

TSS dp 
Rood: 

ca 

be 

o~ 
= 

a 
a 

White. 
62 Kt to B2 
63 Rto R3 
2 
B3 
3 
3 

RE 
mA 
ss 
ARO 

to 
67 Rto 

I os 

w —) 
alate 
SSéSESSS css 
AOA 
eos 

oe 

co 
ors 
moO ROA 

So NNNGwot 

Fi eo be 
ox ie 

+ a 
°s 

@ 
_ 
AR AARP Ba 
chee 
a 

sg SSssss 
dro Fr RDAOD 
ore ee 

ft ee te et 
+ Oo 

os 
° 

is 
ARR RRA RA RAR 
ss 

S 
py 

103 Kt to R sq 
104 Kt to B2 
105 K toR 5 
106 KtoR4 
107 KttoR3 
108 Kt to Kt 5 
109 K to Kt 3 
110 K to B2 
lll KtoK3 
112 Kt to B3 
1l3 KttoK 5 

P 
imal 

PRINCETON UNE 

E 
RR RD ROW RR RRR 

STSSTSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSESSSSSSSSssSssS sSssssssssssss 

Ao 

Tre pana 
= 

mes Powe ee 
—_ 
= 
— 

RSA A SRORAD RAD RAR OGRA AR ROR ROO 
Fact “A 
° 

ri ROR R 
ox gp VON Gy FO 
e 
= 

BRR AR RRR 
ag | tra 

VERSITY 

TCHIGORIN’S GAMES. 151 

White. Black. 
114 K to B2 B to Kt 4 
115 K to Kt 3 K to Kt 2 
116 KtoR4 KtoR3 
117 KttoB3 K to Kt 3 
118 KttoK5ch KtoR3 
119 KttoB7ch KtoKt3 
120 KttoQ8 KtoB3 
121 KtoR5 B to K sq ch 

Drawn game. 

[The notes are by Mr. Mason.) 

-(A) We are indebted for the 
latest revival of this generally con- 
demned attack in the * French” to 
Louis Paulsen, who made use of it 
with rather indifferent success in 
the Berlin Tournament, 1881, It 
was much affected in the Vienna 
Tournament, 1882; but, since then, 
its popularity has so greatly fallen 
away that it is now rarely adopted 
in any contest of importance. In 
the present case some little origi- 
nality is imparted to it from the 
way in which M, Tchigorin follows 
it up; but iu the result it still turns 
out more or less unfavourable to 
him, considered as the attacking 
player. . 

(3B) Black has now a much better 
game than he should have thus 
early in any valid form of this 
Opening. 

(C) It is through a strong and 
rapid advance in this part of the 
field that White hopes to make up 
for the weakness of his position 
elsewhere. 

(D) The purport of this is easily 
seen. The adverse Queen’s Bishop's 
Pawn must be beld where it is, and 
kept under pressure there, and in 
time it must fall, provided that, in 

the meantime, White’s attack on 
the other side can be successfully 
repelled. 

(E) Gaining important time. 
Black's 21 B to Kt 4 was not 
good; he should have played 21 P 
to Kt 3 instead. 

(F) This results in the loss of 
a Pawn, but, for the moment, it 
yields an attack which a slight 
error in the defence might easily 
render irresistible. 

(GQ) It is evident that if White 
were allowed to check at Bishop's 
sixth with his Knight, and keep it 
there, his affairs would be consi- 
derably improved. 

(H) Another, and perhaps better, 
move was 30 Q to R 5. 

(I) White now being a fall Pawn 
to the bad, has nothing better to 
look forward to than a draw. And 
his play from this point to the end 
certainly deserves all the success 
attending it. 

(J) Badly played—this and the 
previous move of the Knight. 

(K) White does well to keep his 
Queen’s Pawn rather than the other, 
as, in the event of its loss, Black’s 
Pawns in the centre would become 
really formidable. 

(L) 61 Kt t. B would lose, as 
after 61.... Pt. Kt, 62 Rt. P, 
Black could cheek at Knight's 
sixth, then play R to Kt 4 and K 
to Q 4 with a winning game. 

(M) About this time Black, fully 
realising the difficulty of winning, 
proposed a draw; but White de- 
¢lined, and continued the contest 
for upwards of 40 moves more, 

Irigunal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

S 
2) 
a 

ss 
ses] 
oo 

QRA TA: 
S 

= 
Ue 

- ae 

tee) 

A 

ate wONrK CoC Onaukhe& wre 
= 

se 

we 
wo 

—e 
ooss 
© 

S 
cs 

© 

— 
ira 
a 
or 
i) 

oc 36 

seca et 

oo 

Fowl o p 

es) 
2 

2 

_ 
Vw 

oO * 

S 

rr 
ce @& 
wo 
pO wOvVSnndon 

co 
—) 
\e~) 
to 

RS genes 
CUR ROROOER 
- SOs 

~~, —°? 

Bde 

a — 
Wirrmacn AS wk OG 
a 
~ 

i) 

TFsr"sssss 
BOO msn Home 

a FF 
ROO 

ESERESESS 
c—) 

RAS 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 106, played on the 16th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. 
M. TeniGoRrx. 

Pt K3 
PtoQ4 
PtoQB4 
Kt teQB3 
Kt to B3 
Bto K 2 
Castles (B) 
Bt. P 

B to Kt 3 
Kt to K 2 (C) 
Kt to K sq 
PtwB4 

Kt to Kt 3 
Kt t. B (BE) 
QtoB3 
Kt toQ3 
Kt to K 5 
Q to R 3 
Bto B2 
KttoBa(?)(F) 
P to Q Kt 3 
BtoR3 

K R to K sq 
Bt. Kt 

aSSwWSES 

PSSSOMSSS 
Romeo rent ome ah 
we & bo Gr or 
-o~ 
= 

White. Biack 
45 KttoK6ch KtoK2 
46 Ktt. R Pt. Kt 
47 P to Q Kt 4(N) K to Q38 
48 Pt. P ch Kt. P 
49 K toQ3 PtoKR3 
50 P to Kt 4 PtooKR4 
51 PtoR3 PtoR5d 
52 PtoR4 PtoR3(F)(O) 
538 PtoR5(‘1)(P) KtoKt4 . 
54 K toQ 4 Kt. P 
55 K to B 5 (') K toR f 
56 Kt. P K to Kt 4 
57 Pto B4 ch K to Kt 3 
58 K toQ6 K to Kt 2 
59 Pto BS K to B sq 
60 Kto BG PtoR4 
61 K to Kt 5 KtoB2 
62 Kt. P Resigns 

[Notes by Mr. Mason.] 

(A) As elsewhere insisted upon, 
this is much preferable to any other 
move of the Bishop in positions of 
this class. 

(B) There is no risk in Castling 
here, as White can in no way hold 
on to the Pawn, 

(C) This, as well as his next 
move or two, does not improve his 
game much. It seems that instead 
of 9.... Bto Kt 3 he should have 
played 9....Bto K 2. 

(D) Black’s King’s Pawn being 
now badly situated, White chiefly 
directs his attention to keeping it 
so as long as possible. 

(E) Injudicious, as it not only 
renders the escape of the King’s 
Pawn from its present predicament 
highly improbable, but exposes it 
to immediate attack in opening the 
file on which it stands to the ope- 
ration of White’s Queen and Rooks. 
On the other hand, it will be seen 
as the game progresses that the 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TCHIGORIN’S GAMES, 153 

doubling of White’s Pawns is little 
or nothing to his disadvantage. 

(F) In not playing 20.... Bt. 
Kt here M, Tehigorin missed what 
might have proved a very fair 
chance of extricating himself from 
his difficulties. It would have had 
the effect of closing the King’s file, 
as White could have done no better 
than reply with 21 P t. B. 

(G) In view of what has been 
said, of course this is greatly 
superior to 25 P t. B. 

(H) If the Queen was to be 
driven away this was the only good 
way to do it. White threatened 
28 K R to K 2, forcing the Pawn 
almost immediately. 

(I) In order to make progress it 
was necessary to get the Black 
Bishop out of the way. 

(J) The exchange could not well 
be avoided, ¢.g.; 31 ....B to Q 2, 
32 Q to R 3, R to B 4, 33 B to Kt 
7,R to R 4, 34Q to 6, and how- 
ever Black plays White can compel 
the exchange, even if he gains no 
further advantage. 

(K) Suppose 37 Kt t. P, Kt t. 
Kt, 38 RB t. Kt, R t. R, 39 Qt. R, 
Q t. Q, 40 Rt. Q, P to Q 5 (!), 41 
Pt. P, RK to Qsq,and Black has 
every chance of drawing. 

(L) A mistake, no doubt, but 
there was no way to save the Pawn, 
which White had prepared to take 
on the very next move, because 
with the King at Bishop’s second 
the variation given in the preceding 
note would not hold. The object of 
Black’s move—37 R to B 5—was 
still to be able to play on the 
Queen’s Pawn at the right time 
3 pee ventured upon 38 Kt t. 

(M) A_ miscaleulation, after 
which, with correct play on both 
sides, the game should have been 
drawn. 

(N) When changing off the 
pieces White failed to see that the 
Black King could come to the sup- 

ort of the Pawn attacked now. 
ere Black obliged to exchange or 
push the Pawn here his game 
would be lost, but as it is he has a 
draw in hand, White's extra Pawn 
being of no account whatever. 

(O) This slip proves fatal, and 
loses the game. ‘The correct move 
was 52 P to R 4, 

(P) The ending is a rather re- 
markable one, and furnishes a very 
good illustration of the niceties, if 
not peculiar difficulties, of Pawn 
play. 

Game 107, played on the léth of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
M. Tcn1gorty. G, H. Mackenztz. 
1PtoQ4 PtK38 
2 PtoK3 K KttoB3 
3K KttoB3 PtoQ4 
4 Bto K 2 (A) PtoB4 
5 Castles Kt to B3 
6 PtoQ Kt3 Pt. P 
EGE BtoQ3 
8 Kt toB3 PwQRS 

White. Black. 
9 BtoQ3 QtoB2 
10 Kt to K 2 PtoQ Kt3 
11 Kt to Kt3 Kt to Q Kt 5 
12 BtoR3 B to Kt 2 
13 Bt. Kt Bt. B 
14 Q to K 2 B to B 6 (B) 
15 Q Rto Qsq P to Kt 3 (?) 
16 Qt K3 P to R 3 (?) 
17 KttoK 5 QE to B sg 

inal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

154 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

White. Black. 
18 Kt to K 2 Bto Kt 5 
19 KttoB4 Kt to K 5(C) 
20 PtoKB3(!) KttoQ3 

21 Ku(K5)t. Kt PU) Pt. Ke 

22 Bt. P ch Kt to B 2 (D) 
23 Qt. P ch K to Q sq 
24 Qt. Kt Qt.Q 

25 Bt. Q Rt. P 

26 Bt. P Bto QB sy 
27 Rtob2 Rt. R 

28 Kt. R BtoQ2 
29 Kt to Q3 BtoQ3 
30 Kt to K 5 B to K sq 
31 BtoB7 RtoR2 
32 Bt. B Kt. B 

33 R to Q Bsq K to Q sq 
34 PtoBs Resigns. 

(A) By allowing Black to be 
first in the field with his Q BP, 
White gives away the advantage 
of the move. 

(B) Black should have Castled, 
having the better game. The text 
move merely drives the R the way 
he would go. 

(C) Even here he might have 
taken advantage of the momentary 
inasking of White's Q to Castle. 
If White sacrifices the Kt, the 
Black Q can always come in to the 
rescue at K Kt 2 or K R 2, and 
White gains at most three Pawns 
for the piece, with no attack to 
speak of. 

(D) Why not 22 K to K 2, and 
on 23 Qt. Pch, K to B sq, 24Q 
to B 6 ch, K to Kt sq (or 24 Q to 
K 5, Kt to B 2), with at least 
better chances than in the actual 
game? The captain’s play through- 
out is all too bizarre. 

Game 108, played on the 17th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
M, Tcnicouin. A, LB. Skirpworth 
1PtoK4 P to K3 
2PtoQ4 P to Q Kt3 
3 BtoQ@3 B to Kt 2 
4 KttoK R3 (A) KKtto B3(B) 
5 Kt to B 3 (C) B to Kt 5 
6 QtoK 2 P to KR 3(D) 
7 Castles Bt. Kt (EB) 
8PrtuB PtoQ4 
9 PwK5 K Kt to Q 2 
10 QtoKt4(F) KtoBsq 
11 KttoB4(G) QtoK2 
12 Rto K sq BtoR3 
13 PtoB4é Bt. P (H) 
14 Bt. B FB 
15 QwB3 P to QB3 (I) 

16 KttoKt6ch Resigns. 
(A) The best square for the Kt. 
(B) Premature, we think, as ob- 
jections to Castling are soon mani- 
fest. Mr. Owen, a great master of 
the Fianchetto Opening, usually 

develops on the Q side first, with 
P to Q 4, and on P to K 5, P to Q 
B 4, &c. 

(C) P to K B 3 is usual in this 
Opening when the K P is attacked 
twice; but White evidently wishes 
to keep the diagonal for the Q. 

(D) PtoQB 4 seems the natural 
seijuel to Black’s last move. White’s 
best reply is P takes P, and we 
leave it an open question whether 
Black should now double the Pawns 
by Bt. Kt ch and Pt. P, as his 
own Q BP would be weak. The 
text move is preparatory to Cus- 
tling; had he Castled now, White 
would certainly have replied 7 P to 
K 5, andif7 Bt. K Kt P, 8 Pt. 
Kt, giving up the exchange, with 
an irresistible attack; or if 7 Ktto 
Q 4, 8 B takes R P ch, &e. 

(E) Castling would still be dan- 
gerous, and soon becomes impos- 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TCHIGORIN’S GAMES, 155 

sible, which shows the error of 
Black's development. At this point 
we find no move for him that we 
thoroughly like: P to Q B 4 might 
still be tried. 

(F) From this point the attack 
is vigorously pressed. 

(G) Feeling his way towards a 
dangerous two-pronged fork after 
Q to B 3. But of course he will 

not show his hand by raising tho 
alarm prematurely. 

(H) Giving his opponent the 
very opportunity he desired. P t. 
P would have lost at least the ex- 
change: P to Q B 3 was the only 

move. 

(1) Better to have resigned at 
ouce! 

_—_ 

Game 109, played on the 28th of May. 
FRENCH OPENING. 

White. Black, 
M. Tceuicorrs. Dr. Noa. 
1PtK4 PtoK 8 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 QKttoB3 K KttoB3 
4Pt.P PLP 
5 KttoB3 BtQs 
6 Bt Q3 Castles 
7 Castles Bto K Kt 5 
8 BtoK Kt5 PtoB3 
9 QtoQ2 Q Kt to Q 2 
10 Kt to K sq Qto B2 
1l PtoB4 PtoK Kt3(A) 
12 Pt KR3 BtoB4 
13 Bt. B PtH 
14 QtwQ3 Kt to K 5 
15 BtoR6 K to R sq (B) 
16 Bt. R Ktt. B 
17 Qt. K3 Kt to K 3 
18 Kt t. Kt (?) Q P t. Kt (C) 
19 Pto K Kt3 Q to Ki 3 
20 PtoB3 Qt. Kt P 
21 Kt to Kt 2 Q to Kt 3 
22 KttoR4 Kt to Kt 2 
23 PtoKt4(D) Rto K Ktsq 
24 K to R sq Q to Q sq 
25 Kt to Kt2(E) Q to Q2(F) 
26 Pto Kt 5 Kt to R 4 
27 PtoB4 PtoB3 
28 PtooKR4 PtoK R3 
29 QtoK R38 RPt. P 
30 RPtP QtoR2 
31 K to Kt sq rt 2 
32 K toB2 P to Kt 5 
33 QtoK 3 P to Kt 6 ch 

White. Black. 
34 K to K 2 R to Kt 5 
35 PtoBd Kt t. P ch 
36 Kt t. Kt Q to R7 ch 
37 K to K sq Bt. Kt 
38 Rt. B P to Kt 7 (!) 
39 Rto B2 P queens c 
40 KtoK 2 Q(Kt8)t. Reh 
41 QtQ R to Kt 7 
42 RtoK B sq PtoBS5 
48 K to K sq Rt. Q 
44 Rt.R Q to Kt 8 ch 
45 K to K 2 P toB6 ch 
Resigns. 

[Notes by Dr. Zukertort, from the 
Chess-Monthly. ] 

(A) White threatened to win a 
piece with 12 P to K BR 38, &c. 

(B) Obviously he dare not play 
the Rook, for White would then 
capture the Kt and force the game 
by checking with the Queen at 
Kt 3. 

(C) If18....BP t. Kt, then 
19 P to B 5. 

(D) This attempt to break 
through on the King’s side is 
perilous." White should rather 
concentrate his forces on the oppo- 
site wing. 

(E) Overlooking the only satis. 
factory continuation with 

25 Ktt. P Kt t. Kt 
26 Pt. Kt Qt RS 
reo 1 re L 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

156 

£27 Rto K Kt sq 
98 Rt. Reh 

29 Q to Kt sq ch 
30 Q to Kt 4 (!) 

LONDON CHE&S 

Bt. P 
Kt R 
K to B sq 

White loses with 30 Q to Kt 2, P 
to K 6, 31 Q to B 3, P to K 7, &e. 

White. 

M, Teonigony, 

TOURNAMENT. 
ee QtoB7 
31 Qto Kt 2 QtoRS 

32 P to B 6 (!), &e. 

(F) From this point Black's 
conduct of the attack is ire- 
proachable. 

—eo— 

Game 110, played on the 29th of May, 
FRENCH GAME. 

Black. 
S. WINAWER. 
Pto kK 3 
PtoQ4 
B to Kt 5 (A) 

4PtP $F 

5 KttoB3 Bto Kt 5 

6 BtoK 2 K KttoB3 

7 Castles Bt. K Kt 

8 Bt. B Castles 

9 Bto Kt 5 PtoB3 

10 Qt.Q3 BtwQ3 

ll Kt to K2 Q Kt to Q 2 

12 Kt to Kt 3 Q to B2 

13 KtoRsq(B) Bt. Kt (C) 

14 BPt. B K BR to K aq 

15 PtoKt3(D) RtK3 

16 Bto B4 Q to R 4 (E) 

17 Pto K Kt4 PtoK R3 

18 P to Kt 5 PtP 

19 Bt. P Q KR to K sq 

20 PwQR4 Kt to K 5 

21 Bt B4 Kt(Q 2)toB3 

22 PtoK Kt4(?) Pte K Kt4(!) 

23 BtoK 5 Q to Q 7 (!) 

24 BtoKt2(F) KttoB7ch 

25 Rt. Kt Qt. R 

26 Rto K Bay Kt t. P (G) 

27 Bw R38 Rt. B 

28 Bt. Kt Rto Ks 

29 Bt RS Rt. R ch 

30 Bt R RtoK 8 
Resigns. 

(A) A loss of time, as Black's 
tenth move shows; but many com- 
plications are hereby avoided, and 

this was probably the object in 
view. 

(B) The subsequent play shows 
how important it was for White to 
seize the open file with one of his 
Rooks at tlis point. 

(C) Black has no need, in this 
position, to be afraid of the end- 
game of two Bishops against two 
Knights. 

(D) If White now plays cither 
R to K sq, Black exchanges Rooks, 
and then by Q to R 4 forces the R 
back to R sq. 

(E) Still preventing R to K sq. 

(F) A miscalculation, expecting 
to win two pieces for the Rook and 
overlooking Black’s 26th move. 
The Field points out that White 
might have played 24 Bt. Kt, Kt 
t. B, 25 Qt. Q, Kt t. Q, 26 BR 
to B 5, Kt to K 5, 27 QRto K 
Bsq. Butafter27....Rto KB 
sq, followed immediately by P to 
B 3, Black would still have a good 
game. 

(G@) This, of course, Black had 
foreseen, though White had not, 
and it is followed up in the same 
high style. Out of the com- 
monplaco Opening Winawer gra- 
dually develops a fine attack 
and completely outplays his ad- 
versary. 

—+ + 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

TCHIGORIN’R GAMES, 

Game 111, played on the 6th of June. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. (B) If 13 Qt. Q,14 Q Rt. Q, 
A, Srnuman. M. Temtcorty. Bt. P, 15 R to Q 7, and wins two 
1PtK4 PtoK4 pieces for the Rook. 
2K KttoB3 QKttoB3 (C) Exchanging Queens now 
8 Bto Kt5 PtoQR3 and then taking the Pawn was, 
4BtoR4 Kt toB3 no doubt, rejected on account ot 
5 PtoQ4 Pt. P » the R coming in at Q 7, but Black 
6 PtoK 5 KttoK 5 gets so bad a game by the play in 
7 Castles Bto K 2 the text that we think it should 
8 Bt. Kt QPtB have been ventured in preference. 
9 Ktt.P Castles (D) In order to play Bto Bs 
10 BtoKS Pt QBA(A) — in answer to P to BG. Tho dee 
: fence, however, would still have 
sy P : KB8 () poe t to Kt 4 failed against the best play. 
z F * Ris) - oo 2 fo} 2 White me sentacted ~~ 
P a irreproac a since his 
4 As ae pe Re opponent’s error md the tenth 
17 Q Kt to K 4 Rto 7 D move. Now, however, he should 
epoxy yg +e oh ek ) have played P to B 6, and followed 
19 3 Rto Q Ms ) Q to B os it up with the move in the text. , 
(F) Black defends himself well 
ae ay n Soe Kt3 under difficulties. The following 
22 P tok 6 P t. K P (F) variations show that Ki P t. P 
23 PtKP PtooK R4 would have lost the game: 22 Kt 
24 QtoR3 B to Kt sq Pt. P, 23 Kt t. P, Bt. Kt (or A), 
26 KttoB Adis ch(H)Q t. Q a winning game. (A) 23 R te K 
98 Kt(R3)toKtSBioKB4() + BQ t. Kt (K 2), 36Q to Bb 
29 P to B3 K to Kt 2 ch, Qt. Q, 27 Kt t. Q, &e. 
30 PtoK R3(J) QRWQs (@) Much better than B t. P, to 
1 
31 KRtQsy RtR which Q to Q B 3 was the abso- 
32 Rt. R K toR3 lutely futal reply. P t. Kt would 
33 KttoB7ch KtoKt2 obviously have laid him open to 
34 Kt(B7)to Kti KtoR3 mate in a few moves. The neatest 
35 KttoB7ch KtoKt2 finish would be 26 Qt. P ch, K to 

36 Kt(B7)toKt5(K) K to R 3 
Drawn game. 

(A) Now was the time to advance 
P to K B 3 and insure the open 
file for the Rook, with chances of 
the better game later on. White 
' could not reply P to K 6, as the 
Pawn would at once be lost by P 

toQ B 4. 

Kt 2 (26 B to R 2,27 RtoB 7), 
27 Kt to Q 6. 

(H) 26 Q to Q B 3 was still the 

coup juate. The following is a pro- 
bable continuation: 26 Q to Q Bs, 
Q to K 4 (!), 27 Kt (R 5) to BG, 
Bt. Kt, 28 Kt t. B,Q to K 6 ch, 29 
K to R sq, Q t. Q; 30 R to R 4'ch, 
K to Kt 2,31 Kt t. Rch, and 32 
P+t.Q. 

now al rom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

158 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(I) The strength of the two 
Bishops gives Black a perfectly 
safe draw, and, indeed, rather the 
best of the game. 

(J) Vaiuly hoping to dislodge 

the Bishop, for which Black's reply 
leaves no time. 

(K) If White tried P to R 4 the 
Pawn would soon be lost by P to 
B4, driving back the Rook, and 
then K to BR 4. 

—_—s 

Game 112, played on the 9th of Juno. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

M, Tentcorrs, A, Setimax. 
1PtoK B4 PtoQB4 
2PtoK8 Pio Q4 

3 K Kt to B3 QKttoB3 
4 PtoQ Kt3 PtoK 3 

5 Bto Kt 2 Kt to B3 

6 B to Q3 (A) Bto K 2 

7 KttoB3 PtoQ R3(B) 
8 Castles P to Q Kt 4 
9 PtoQR4 P to Kt 5 (C) 
10 Kt to K2 Castles 
1l Kt to Kt 3 Kt to Q 2 (D) 
12 KttoR5 P to Kt 3 (E) 
13 KttoK5(F) QKtt. Kt 
14 Pt. Kt PtoK B4(G) 
15 KttoB4 Ktto Ktsq(H) 
16 QtoB3 Rto R2 
17 Qt R3 Kt toB3 
18 P to Kt 4 KR toB 2(1I) 
19 Pt. P Kt Pt. P 
20 K toRsq B to B sq 
21 RtoKtsqch Bto Kt2 
22 BtoK 2 PtoQR4 
23 R to Kt3 K to R sq (J) 
24 QRto K Ktsqg QRtoQ B2 
25 BtoRS5 K Rto K 2 
26 Ktto Kt6ch Pt. Kt 
27 Bt. Pch K to Kt sq 
28 QtoR7 ch K to B sq 
29 BtoR5(K) RtoB2 
30 Rt. B Resigns. 

(A) This mode of development 
was more than once adopted by 
Tchigorin: see his game with Eng- 
lisch, No. 115, and notes there. 
We own that we prefer B to K 2, 
at least in even games. 

(B) Englisch here continued 
with 7 Castles, 8 P toQ Kt 3, and 
9B to Kt 2. The advance of these 
Pawns is premature, and loses time 
which ought to be spent in strength- 
ening the King’s side against the 
attack of the two Bishops. 

(C) Proving the truth of the 
last remark. Any other move 
would lead to a break-up of the 
Pawns; the one chosen not only 
drives the Kt the way he is going, 
but loses the last chance of dis- 
lodging the K B. 

(D) Kt to K sq is better both 
for immediate defence and because 
it leaves the K P protected by the 
B. Compare Black’s 15th move. 

(E) P to B3 should have been 
played first. 
(F) Seizing the right moment 

for w decisive advance. Obviously 
the Kt at R 5 cannot be taken. 

(G) If 14.... Pt. Kt, 15Q t. 
P, P to B 4, 16 P t. P ep » ae t 
P,17 Bt. Kt, Rt. B, 804. RP 
ch, K to B sq, 19 B to Kt 6 and 
wins. 

(H) This forlorn retreat is the 
consequence of his error at the 11th 
more. 

(I) After 18....Pt. P, 19 Q 
t. P, Black would have no good 
move left. 

(J) It isonly a choice of evils for 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TCHIGORIN’S GAMES, 

the K to move or to remain where 

he is. 

In the latter case White, 

after doubling the Rooks, would 
doubtless continue with Kt to R4, 

and Kt to B 6 ch, 

159 

(K) Threatening a pretty mate 

by Q to R 8 ch, 
M. Tchigorin’s 

and R to Kt 8. 
conduct of the 

assault in this game is that of o 

thorough master, 

—s 2 

Game 113, playod on the 7th of June. 
ENGLISH OPENING. 

White. Black. 
G. H. Macwenzte. M. Tontaorty. 
1PtQB4 PtoK 8 
2PtK3 KttoK B3 
3 KtteoK B3 PtoQ4 
4PtoQ4 P to B3 (A) 
5 BtoQ3 BtoQ3 
6 Castles Castles 
7 KttoBs QKt to Q2 
8 Pt.QP(B) KPt.P 
9 QtoB2 R to K sq 
10 PtoQKt3 KttoBsq 
1l Bto Kkt2 Bto K Kt 5 
12 Kt to Q2 BtoR4 
13 PtoK R3 B to Kt 3 
14 QR to K sq Kt to R 4 
1, PtoBd Kt to Kt 6 
16 Rto B2 PtoK B4 
17 KttoB3 Kt toQ2 
18 KtoR2 Kt toK 5 
19 Bt. Kt Pt. B 
20 KttoK 5 Kt to B3 
21 QtoK2(C) QtoK2 
22 RtoQBsq(D) BtoR 4 
23 Q to B sq PtoK R3 
24 P to Kt3 K to R 2 
25 KRtoQB2(E)R to K Kt sq 
26 Rto Kt 2 Q RtoK Bsq 
27 Q to K sq R to K sq 
28 QRtoB2 PtoK Kt 4P) 
29QRtKB2 Rto Kt2 
30 Kt to K 2 QRtoK Kt sq 
81 Pt. P Rt P 
32 KttoK B4 Q to K sq 
33 Q to K Baq R (Kt sq) to 

Kt 2 

34 QtoB4 Bt. Kt 
35 Pt.B Kt to Q 4(G) 
36 Kt t. Kt P+, Kt 
37 Qt.QP Bto BG 
38 Rt. B (H) Pt. R 

White. 
39 Qt. K BP 
4 QtoB4é 
41 BtoQ4 
42 RtoQB2 
43 RN tok Kt 2 
44 QtoB3 
45 R to K B2 
46 Q to Kt 2 
47 Rt. P 
48 P to K Kt 4 
49 K to Kt 3 
50 QtoB3 
51 KtoR4 
52 PtoK 4 
53 BtoB2 
54 K to Kt 3 
55 Bto K 3 
56 Q to B 2 
57 Rt.Q 
58 Rto B38 
59 BtoQ4 
60 K t. R (1) 
61 PtoK R4 
62 P to Kt 5 (J) 
63 KtoK 38 
64 P to Kt 4 
65 BtoBd 
66 KtoB4 
67 PtoR 4 
68 BtoQ6 
69 K to Kt 3 
70 B to B 5 (K) 
71 Pto Kt 6 
72 Pto Kt 7 
73 KtoB3 
74 Bto Kt 6 
75 Bto B7 ch 
76 BtoQ8 

PRINCETO 

R(Q2)toKt2 

a 
FSSTSSSSMHSSSESOsss 
Hr WO ROOm ss RODOPD ROS 

FSSMSSPssssssssss: 
= 

a. 
m2 ws 
a 

oe) we we ROMs 
= 
3 

HANWHA RRR RR OOKOO ZOKOOO ax 
eo 
ic) 
a 

Fon URW US aro 

~ 
Mor 

inal fron 

N UNIVERSITY 

160 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
77 PtoKt5 K toK 4 
78 Pt.P Pt? 
79 PtoR5 KtoB4 
80 K to Kt 3 R toQ5(L) 
Resigned without re- 
suming. 

(A) This defensive move is con- 
trary to the old authorities, and 
also, we believe, to the new. The 
former played P to B 4, keeping up 
the identity of the positions; the 
latter play mostly P to Q Kt 3, 
reserving the advance of the B P, 
or first bring out B to K 2. 

(B) It can bardly be right thus 
toclear his opponent’s game. No 
doubt Black threatened to gain 
time by P t. P and Kt to Kt 3, 
but P to Q Kt 3 would have pre- 
vented this, and the future pros- 
pects of his Queen’s wing would 
then have been very remote. 

(C) Threatening Q to B 4 ch, to 
which Black’s next move is a reply. 

(D) We incline, on the whole, to 
the immediate exchange of Kt for 
B, though White doubtless hoped 
that the Kt in his present situation 
would make himself sufficiently 
disagreeable to induce an exchauge 
with the other B, giving White a 
passed Pawn. 

(E) Both players, from the 
almost purposeless shifting of tho 

pieces hereabouts, seem on the 
watch for a mistake rather than 
meaning business on their own 
account, Com White's 25th 
_ 26th moves, Black’s 26th and 
7th. 

(F) At length Black bas made 
up his mind to attack. 

(G) All this is well played, yet 
White, we fancy, bas always the 
draw in hand with moderate care. 

(H) If KR to Kt sq, the attack 
by Q to R 4 (threatening mate in 
two moves by Qt. R P ch) would 
be decisive: e¢.g., 38 R to Kt sq, Q 
toR 4,39 P to K R 4, Rt. P, ke. 

(1) After the exchange of the 
major pieces White has a trifle the 
best of the end- game. 

(J) He is evidently playing to 
win. P t. P, though it loses two 
Pawns for one, would have secured 
the draw. 

(K) To prevent R to K Kt 8 ch 
when the Kt P advances. But this 
and the next fatally premature 
move throw away the game. 

(L) Black's 80th move was in- 
closed in the envelope at the hour 
of adjournment, and White re- 
signed instead of resuming it. 
There is no doubt that Black can 
now win by taking Q R P with R 
at the proper moment. No analysis 
seems required. 

—_™~—— 

Game 114, played on the 11th of Jone, 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
M. Tcntcoriy. Il. E. Birv. 
1PtoQ4 Ptok B4 
2 BtoK Kt5(A)PtoK R38 
8 BtKR4 P to K Kt4 
4 Bto K Kt3 P to Q4(B) 
5 PtoK 3 Bto K 3 
6PtoKR4 P to K Kt 5 

White Black. 
7 KttoQR3(C)KttoK B3 
8 KttoK2 Pt.QB3 
9KttKB4 BtKB2 
10 PtoB4 Q to R4 ch 
11 Qto Q2 Qt. Qch 
12 Kt.Q PtoK 3 
13 BtoQ3 Bt. Kt 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TCHIGORIN’S GAMES. 161 

White. Black. 
14 Pt.B PtP 
15 Bt. P KttoK5ch(D) 
16 KtoK 2 K to K 2 
17 BtoR2 P to K 4 (E) 
18 Bt. B Pt. Kt 
19 Bto Kt 6 KtoB3 
20 P to R5(F) P to Kt 6 
21 Pt.P rir 
22QRtoK Bsq Pt. B 
23 Rt. Pch K to Kt 2 
24 RtoB7 ch K to Kt sq 
25 Rt PatR7 PtoQ Kt3 
26 RtoR4 Kt to Kt 4 
27 RtoB?7 Kt to R38 
28 BtoQ 8 (?)(G) Ktt. R 
Resigns. 

[The notes are by Mr. H. E. Bird.]} 

(A) This move is a novelty, and 
one not to be despised. P to Q4 
as a reply would, I think, be free 
from objection, and perhaps pre- 
ferable to those liking a secure 
opening and safe kind of game. 

(B) P to K B 5, with the view 
of winning the Bishop, would pro- 
bably have resulted thus : 

White, it appears, could then pre- 
vent Black's Castling and get three 
Pawns for his Bishop; yet Black's 
game would really, I think, he 
better, though an awkward one to 
play. 

(C) Players of the Tchigorin and 
Bird stamp care little for such tri- 

fling disadvantages as doubled 
Pawns. 

(D) Black age Ag judiciously 
here. The check was given at once 
to secure the K 5 square for the Kt 
and option to captureQ B. Had 
the move been delayed White could 
have played B to Q 3, which would 
have prevented it unless made at a 
disadvantage. 

(E) A happy device which may 
not have been foreseen by White. 

(F) The position stands thus: 
Strangely enough, it appears quite 
in Black’s favour, but it is not so 
in reality. Ina few moves which 
appear naturally to result from the 
position White gets at least an 
even game, if not an advantage. 

pare PtoK B5 
5 PtoK 3 PtoK R4 (G) A remarkable blunder, the 
6PtP PtoKR5 only instance of a piece left actually 
7BtoK2 PtoQ4 en prise in the Tournament. 
—_— oe 
Game 115, played on the 12th of June, 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
M,. TcurtcoRin. B. Eneiscn. 11 Kt to Q sq Ktt. B 
1PtwKB4 PtoQ4 12 Pt. Kt Kt to K aq 
2PtcK3 PtoQ B4 13 Kt to B2 PtoB3 
3 K KttoB3 K KttoB3 14 PtoQ4 Kt to Q 3 
4PtcQKt3 PtoK3 15 Q BR to B sq (C) BR to B sq (D) 
5 Bto Kt 2 Bto K 2 16 QtoR3 Q to Q2 
6 BtoQ3(A) KttoB3 17 Rio B2 Kt to K 5 
7 KttoB3 Castles 18 K Rto Bsq Kt t. Kt 
8 Castles P to Q Kt 3 19 K t. Kt K BR to K sq 
9 QtoKsq(B) Bto Kt2 20 Q to Kt 4 PsP 
10 Q to Kt 3 Kt to Q Kt 21 Ktt. P Rt. R 
M 

Inginal trom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

162 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

White. Black. 
22 Rt.R BtoB4 
23 Kt to K2 Qto K B2 
24 Kt to Kt 3 QBto Bsq 
25 PtoQ4 PtoK4 
26 KttoBsd Bt. Kt(E) 
27 Qt. B Pt.QP 
28 Pt. P P to Kt 3 
29 Q to Kt 4 BtoQ3 
30 Rto BB PtoB4 
31 Rt. Rech Qt R 
32 QtoB3 QtoK 5 
33 Qt. Q(F) BPt.Q 
34 B to B sq K to B2 
35 PtoK RS B to Kt 5 
36 P to Kt 4 Bto Bb 
37 KtoK 3 PtQkKt4 
38 Bto Q 2 B to Kt 7 
39 BtoRS K to K3 
40 Bto Kt 4 Bto B8 ch 
41 BtoQ2 BtoR6 
42 Bto K sq K to B2 
i Bto Q2 Bto K2 
44 Kto K 2 P to Kt 6 
45 Bto K sy PwQR4 
46 Bio Q2 BwQs 
47 BtoK 3 

Drawn game 

(A) This form of the Opening is 
usually adopted when giving the 
odds of Q Kt, and in that case is 
followed up by advancing the Pawns 
on the Castled King and Castling 

on the other side or not at all. 
Against a powerful antagonist we 
decidedly prefer B to K 2. 

(B) P to Q R 3, on this or the 
next move, would have prevented 
the exchange of Kt for B and 
doubling of the Pawns. But White 
perhaps thought that in that case 
the R P would itself be weak. 

(C) According to our notions, 
White should have seized the op- 
portunity to undouble the Pawns 
by P takes P. 

(D) And here P to B 5 would have 
rendered the White Q P useless, 
and secured a preponderance on 
the Queen's wing, without, we 
think, any counterbalaneing dan- 
gers elsewhere. But Herr Englisch’s 
play was marked throughout the 
‘Tournament by over-caution. 

(E) Compulsory. If K Bmoves, 
Kt. Q Band wins. The “ drawing” 
school invariably exercise great 
foresight in changing off every 
iece that threatens to become 
angerous. 

(F) 33 P to Kt 3, Q to B7 ch, 
34 Q to K 2, equally forces the ex- 
change of Queens and the draw. 
But there is no danger from the 
passed Pawn. 

_—— 24+ 

Game 116, played on the 13th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
B. Exoutscn. M, Tenicoriy. 
1 PtoK 4 PtoK3 
2PtoK B4(A) PtoQ4 
8 PtoK 5 PtoQB4 
4K KttoB3 Q KttoB3 
56 Pto K Kt3 Q to Kt 3 
6 Bto Kt 2 Kt to R3 
7 KttoB3(B) BtoQ2 
8 Pto Kt3 R to B sq 
9 Bto Kt 2 KttoBéd 

White. Black. 

10 Castles PtoK R4 
11 Bt KR3(?) QKttoQi 
12 KtoRsq(?) Bto B38(C) 
13 Ktto QR 4(D) Bt. Kt 

14 Bt. Kt B to Kt 4 
1 BtoB2 = Bt. R 

16 Bt B B to K 2 
17 Rto Kt sq Q to B 3 (E) 
18 PtoK R3 P to K Kt 3 
19 KtoR2 PtoR8 

nal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

TCHIGORIN'S GAMES. 163 

White. Black. 
20 B to Kt 2 Q to B2 
21 PtoB4 Castles 
22 Pt. P Pt? 
23 Qto B2 PtoQ Kt 4 
24 R to K sq K to Kt 2 
25 K to Kt sq Pto Bd 
26 PtoK 6 BtoB4 
27 PtoK Kt4 Bt. Beh 
28 Kt. B Q to Kt 3 ch 
29 K to K 2 Kt to Kt 6 ch 
30 K to Q sq Kt to K 5 
31 Ktto K 5 QBPt.P 
32 Qt. P Q to B7 
33 Bt. Kt Rto B8 ch(F) 
34 Kt. R Q t. R ch 
35 K to Kt 2 Qt. B 
36 QtoQB3 PtoQsd 
37 QtoB7 Qt. P 
38 Pt. RP Pt.RP 
39 PtoK 7 Q t. P ch 
40 K to Kt sq R to K sy 
41 KttoB6(G) QtoK8ch 
42 KtoB2 Q to B 6 ch 
43 K to Q sq PwQé 
44 QtoKtsch KtoR2 
45 QtoKt2(H) QtoR8ch 

Resigns. 

(A) The ordinary French Open- | 

ing is not lively, but it at least 
retains the pull of the move for a 
long time. The text move not 
only gives away that advantage, 
but leads to a form of the Sicilian 
altogether in favour of the second 

player. 

(B) There is something to be 
said for White's two last moves. 
His K B P is weak and all the 
better for support, and the B at 
Kt 2 has rather more power than 
at the more usual post of K 2 or Q 
3. But this present move of the 
Kt is altogether in defiance of 
“the principles,” and can only lead 
to disaster. The old-fashioned de- 
velopment by P to Q B 3, Kt to Q 
R 3, and Kt to B 2, reserving the 
advance of P to Q 4, is much 
better. 

(C) Black's opening dispositions 
have been as correct as his oppo- 
nent’s have been the reverse. He 
now threatens to gain at least the 
exchange by Kt t. Kt. 

(D) Which loses the exchange 
in another manner. White should 
have acknowledged his error by 
returning B to Kt 2, though even 
then his game would have been a 
poor one. 

(E) Anticipating P to Q Kt 4. 

(F) All this is good style. Black 
steadily improves his advantage, 
and gives away no chance. 

(G) If 41 Q to Q 7, then of 
course 41....Q to Kt 5 ch, and 
42 Rt. P. 

(H) Now, rather than on the 
next move, was the time for White 
to resign with good grace, 

— +) -+— 

Game 117, played on the 14th of June. 
FOUR KNIGHTS’. 

White. Black. 
M. Tentaonrrny. 8. Rosenrrar, 
1PtK4 Ptok 4 
2QKttoB3 Q Kt to BS 
38 Ktto B3 Kt to B38 
4 BtoQ Kt 5 BtoQ Kt 5 
5 Castles Bt. Kt (A) 
6QPtB P to Q3 

White. Black, 
7 Bt. Ktch PtB 
® Bto Kt 5 B to Kt 5 
9QtQ3 PtoK R3 
10 Bt. Kt Qt.B 
ll KttoQ2(B) Castles KR 
12 PtoQB4 BtoK 3 
13 PtoBS5 Pt.Q4 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

164 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
14 QR to Q sq QtoK 2 
15 PtoQ Kt4 PtoQR4 
16 PtoQR3 Pt. Kt P 
17 Pt. Kt P K RtoQKt sq 
18 PtoQB3 Rto R6 
19 Rto R sq K BR to R sq 
20 Rt. KR Rt. R 

(A) We prefer Castling at once. 
(B) White ought now to make 

something of the advantage, slight 
as it is, of Kt against Band doubled 
Pawns. 

(C) The early voereee of minor 
pieces shows that both players were 
eager to draw the game as soon as 
possible. As it is White's turn to 
play, we presume that he here pro- 
posed the draw; had he been ina 
fighting mood the game was quite 
worth continuing by 21 Q to B 2. 

——+ + 

Game 118, played on the 16th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
8S. RosenrtTHa.. M. Touicoriy. 
1PtoK4 P to K3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 PtP PtP 
4 K KttoB3 K Kt to B3 
5 BtoQ3 BtQ3 
6 Castles Castles 
7 KttoB3 Kt to B3 
8 BtoK Ktd Bto K Kt 5 
9 K to R sy Bto K2 
10 BtoK 3 Qtr Q2 
11 Bto K 2(A) Q R to Q sq 
12 KttoK Ktsq K Rto K sy 
13 PtoK R38 Bt B 
14 K Ktt.B Qt B4 
15 Kt to Kt3 Q to Kt 3 
16 Q KttoK 2 Kt to K 5 
17 Ktt. Kt Q t. Kt 
18 Kt to Kt 3 Q to Kt 3 
19 PtoQB3 BtQ3 
20 Q to Q 2 (B) R to Q2 
21 Bt B4 Bt. B 
22 Qt. B QRto K 2 
23 Q to B5(C) Qt. Q 
24 Ktt. Q RtoK7 
25 QR to Kt sq Kt to K 2 
26 Kt to Kt 3 

Drawn game, (D) 

(A) Up to this point the Opening 
follows, with one or two transposi- 
tions, the 7th match game between 
Zukertort and Blackburne. The 

former here played 11 Q to Q 2—a 
much more attacking move. The 
following instructive variation, to 
show that White has then nothing 
to fear from 11.... Bt. Kt, 12 P 
t. B, Q to R 6, is taken from the 
Chess-Monthly, Vol. IL, p. 372:— 
13 Bto K 2, BtoQ 3, 14 P to B4, 
Kt to K 2,15 R to K Kt sq, Kt to 
B 4, 16 Rto Kt 5 (threatening B 
to B sq, and also Kt takes Q P), 
Kt t. B, 17 Pt Kt P to B 
3,18Q Rto K Kt sq, P to K 
Kt 3, 19 QR to Kt 3, Q to Q2 (1), 
20 B to Q 3, with the superior 
game. 

(B) The draw is evidently being 
played for on both sides, every 
piece being changed off as soon as 
it begins to threaten anything. 
White now makes a bid for an ad- 
vantage of position if Black falls 
into the trap by 20....B t. Kt, 
21 Pt. B, 22Qt. P, 2BtoB4, 
recovering the Pawn with an open 
K B file, and better Pawns on the 
Queen’s side. 

(C) Scarcely so prudent as re- 
turning the Q to Q 2; see the next 
note. 

(D) Black ought not to have 
consented to the draw till he had 
tried the effect of keeping the 
seventh row by BR to B 7, &e. 

| fr 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

165 

TCHIGORTN’S GAMES, 

Game 119, played on the Igth of June. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

oaae 

FA hel Bel Bel Be bad Bd Bt 8 pe he hd ee 

i) 
aS eto CHEM ye On Syne DDH 
-Pidage ek mda Oemmamonm 
= S8sseesgsSsggssesgEsg33s 
SS th a St Bt el efi ete a 

SRRISSSSSSEESRSSSSSES 

Q KttoB3 
PtoQR3 
oB3 
P 
Q 
Q 
K 
Q 
Kt 
Q 
B 
K 
K 
B 
K 
e8 
K 
B 

Black. 
8S, Rosenruat. 
PtoK 4 

R 4 (A) 

mn 
wage: “See Die nas 

TcHIGORIN. 
PtoK 4 

White. 

M 

i 

™ 
a) 

3 
- 

& 

FT 

Heo 

(A) A novelty; 8 P t.P is the 

usual move, to which Anderssen’s 

favourite reply was 8... 

» Kt to 

K 2,as played by Zukertort against 
Mackenzie; 8 Kt t. P is inferior: 
...- Be t. Kt, 9 P t. Kt, 
P to Q B 3 (!) Black will have the 
best Pawns for the end-game, 
four to three on the Queen’s side. 

after 8. 

o fm ad 

MAM PTHOCeDODASCHAMAHSCeBWASocN 

SAS RANA ONAN 

-,° oO 
sas 8 
gh § 
om 
ang 
a3 
pas 
SSa 
amx3 
BE :M3 
< 28 
—~® i‘ 
Bye 
gas 

oo a 

M2 sos o 5 
SA “Se oa 
pe 368 ae 
Jig agi 38 
° : = a S32 
Bae fie 98 
3h tel A Se 
big ig: 9s 
23". S360 *e 
gon os o 5 
; aaa gES "2 
g OF2 852 GF 
& ewe 23m & 
+ Tn] 

~_ 
ch hetet i 

Sed 

BOAO Om Fie MORON MMO, MAA 
HHS SSS8uMFSeZFIZE33I295848 
Pa Phd ay A A A ht bt Bh Oh hd Bt bf 

<= 

7 

— a 
BE Bato me Moe OS ccs ~ 

RAARAARR 

83 oo 

Aa 
Sesese sss ossSsMMSsscsSSsSuSIssssIsssssgcus 

o 

Fas oD 

Sim SOs oR Mim Ma 8 SOn mach Ah On OM Pp OMMM MM AM ma a 
4E3 

PAO Ay ey A hd OR OR ROCOM OOM MOM MAR Mm Mid A A hd A MA Ae AY 

RRERBIIISIS 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

perfectly 

have better chances of drawing by 

keeping both Rooks as long as pos- 
sible. The end-game which ensues 

requires no further comment; 
White's Pawns are so easily pre- 

served that his course is 
simple throughout, 

CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

GIvocO PIANO. 

played 
Black. 

gment, 

(F) A trap to win the exchange, 

but it costs a great deal too much 

in Pawns. 

Game 120, played on the 15th of June. 

LONDON 
Pawn to the good, has been 
(G) Black, we should say, would 

with great vigour and jud 

166 

=a o_o 
a = 5 RES. = ¥ 35 
Pe ee en teudeo"o® oF 

i-> ] 
wa 2 
a usststussssssessssssessssssesese8u39 
a aie a ta ahd oe ee eee ee Ae a i 
—- A i a ~< 3 
Pye wnat we INES Sood Sarat. 

Ps on he mo ee oe 
Bebe. Booka onmomnia MM OM A be <I oR 
futsaususassisssssss82iseseeg858e3 rein 

~~ 

Eel Persper arse re yerer Per orereToreTerc tf Pele pepeivbet” pele bel betty 

SRSSBESISISTRSLSSRSSRSESRSSSSRSTSSSSSeragz 

Lina 

© went a eS 
~ ar 

Mout Taka ASMeon tS Bes eS 
gD QR ERO SkOR SCOLBEam, Aon 
SSSSsesssmssugssse s22u8 
Be OP Be Oe PR Os PPR AB Oh OP OH Sos pe 

M. TcntGorty. 
K 
Q 
B 
B 
Q 
Kt 
K 
BS 
Kt dy - R4 

oO 
BOMM EM ams ge OO m site CR Me Bam omoe 
SSSSSuSKNqSA SS8Sugssesegshis 

BA RORAMONSAMKMORRORMHAM AMAR OCoRoD 

2a8anR88 a © Ph 00 = 
AARRASRRSBRSae 

White. 
J. Maso. 
1 PtoK 4 
2 KttoK B3 
3 BtoB4 
4 Kt 
5 t 
6 Bt 
7 Qt 
8 Bt 
9 
10 
1l 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
4 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. Black. 
74 RtoR2 KtB6 
75 Kto K3 P to Q7(!) 
Resigns. 
[The notes are by Mr. Mason. ] 

(A) Black assumes the offensive 
here, but the attack is of a kind 

which should s exhaust 
itself without inflicting much 
damage on his adversary. 

(B) Safe enough in the position, 
though requiring to be bia’ care- 
fully and accurately followed up. 

(C) Of the three other moves 
claiming particular consideration at 
this point—17 Q to Kt 2,17 KtoR 
2,and 17 P to R 4—it is doubtful 
which, if any, should have been 
given the preference over the one 
actually made. Perhaps the last, 
as Black could not have ventured 
upon 17....Q t. Kt P (on ac- 
count of 18 K to R 2, threatening 
19 Rt. K Kt, &.), and must, 
therefore, have retreated the Queen 
to her own square, thus taking up 
an absolutely defensive position. 
17.... Kt to K B 8 would have 
been the reply to either of the 
other two moves mentioned. 

D) For the moment Black ceases 
to be fully aware of his opponent’s 
designs, otherwise this mancuvre 
would, doubtless, have been 
omitted. 

(E) This it was that M. Tchi- 
gorin failed to take into account 

TOHIGORIN’S GAMES. 167 

when playing his Rook to King's 
third. 

(F) It is evident that 23 Kt t. 
B P would have been bad. 

(G) In retreating his Rook Black 
threatened to capture the Rook's 
Pawn—a thing he could not do 
before without losing his Queen. 

(H) Here White misses his 
chance. 28 Kt t. P would have 
left him with an easy game. 

(1) White’s attack is now tho- 
roughly spent, and he has nothing 
to show for it except a position so 
weakened as to be incapable of 
withstanding the reaction which 
must sooner or later set in, and 
which a player of his opponent's 
style and calibre might be trusted 
to make the most of, 

(J) Wild play. 

(K) Better than taking the Pawn 
immediately, 

(L) Promising little, but there 
was little to play for. 

(M) This Knight, whose latent 
influence has all along been so 
powerful, now takes up an active 
rele, which is cauteibly sustained 
tothe end. The remainder of the 
game is simply the record of a 
struggle on White’s part to hold 
out as long as there was the 
slightest chance of a draw in pros- 
pect, a chance which, from the 
nature of the forces remaining on 
a board, existed up to the very 
ast. 

—~1e— 

Game 121, played on the 18th of June. 
TWO KNIGHTS’ DEFENCE. 

White. Black. 
J, Mortimer. M. Tonrtcorrm. 
1PtoK4 PtoKk 4 
2 KttoK B38 Kt toQ B3 
3 BtoB4 Kt to K B3 
4 Kt to Kt 5 PtoQ4 

White. Black. 
&§ Pt. P Kt to R 4 
6 B to Kt 5 ch PtoB3 
7 PtP Pt. P 

8&8 Bto K 2 PtoK R3 
9 KttoK B3 Ptok 5 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

168 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

White. Black. 
10 Kt to K 5 Q to B 2 (A) 
11 Pt Q4(B) Pt. Pep. (C) 
12 Kt t. P BtoQ3s 
13 PtooKR3 Castles 
14 Castles BtoK B4 
15 KttoB3 QR to Q sq 
16 BtoQ2 Kt to B5 
17 Q to B sq K R to K sq 
18 BtoB3 Bto R7 ch 
19 K to Raq Bt. Kt 
20 Pt.B Rt. P 
21 BtoK3 ktt. B 
22 Pt. Kt QRt. P(D) 
23 Bt. P Qt. B 
24 Kt. B Q to Q 3 ch 
25 KtoRsq(E) KttoR4 
26 Q to Q sq Kt to Kt 6 ch 
27 K to Kt sq R to Q6 
28 QtoR4 QtoB4ch 
29 RtoB2 R to K3 
30 R to Q sq Rt. R 
31 Qu Rk KttoR8 
32 QtoQ8ch K to R2 
33 Q to Q 3 ch P to B 4(F) 
34 Qt. Pch Qt. Q 
35 Rt. Q Kt to Kt 6 
36 RtoQR5 Rto K B3(G) 
37 Rt. P PtoR4 
38 PtoK R4(H) RtoBsch 
39 K to R2 KttoB4 
40 RtoR4 Rto B7 
41 ap Pen 4 Rt. Q KtP 
42 Kt to Kt dc K to Kt 3 (J) 
43 K to R 6 ch Kt to Q3 
44 Rt. Kt ch K to B 4 
45 R to Q 5 ch K to Kt 3 
46 PtoR3 R to Kt 6 
47 RtoR5 KtoR3 
48 R to R 6 ch P to Kt 3 
49 RtoR8 K to Kt 2 
50 Rto R7 ch K to B3 
51 R to B7 ch K to K4 
52 RtoB3 R to Kt 7 
53 KtoKkt3th RtoK7 
54 RK to K 3 ch KtoB4 

55 R to K 5 ch 

(A) We prefer this move to the 
more usual 10....Qt0Q5. It 
has the sanction of Boden, of Bird 
in his Chess Openiags, and of Tehi- 
gorin himself in a brilliant game 

won by him at Vienna (Chese- 
Monthly, Vol, III., p. 362). 

(B) It is not indifferent with 
which Pawn White defends first: 
11 P to K B 4 is the correct move, 
though Black does not take the 
most direct advantage of the play 
in the text. 

(C) 11....BtoQ 3 is better: 
then if 12 Pto K B4, Pt. P ep., 
13 Kt t. P, B to K Kt 5, and Black 
either wins the R P or prevents his 
opponent from Castling. Kt to Kt 
4 would not be good for White now 
or on the preceding move. 

(D) By the vigour of his last 
few moves Black has now recovered 
the Pawn with a decided wanhogy 45 
of position. Here it might 
better to withdraw the B to Q 3, 
reserving the attack on the isolated 

(E) 25 K to Kt sq is no better. 
The reply is 25....Q to B 4, 
and if then 26 Kt to Q R 4, Q 
to Q 5. 

(F) An almost inconceivable 
blunder to have occurred in the last 
round, and with the prizes so 
nearly in view. 33....PtoKt3 
left White without resource: for if 
34 Kt to K 4, Kt could still take 
R, attacking the Q. 

(G) There was no necessity for 
abandoning another Pawn. He 
might have played Kt to K 7 ch, or 
even PtoQR3. The Knight is 
perfectly safe. 

(H) Black seems to have acted 
on the poor chance that White 
would allow him to advance P to 
R 5, threatening mate. 

(1) White wrongly gives up the P 
under the misconception that he 
had a mate on the board. 

(J) Where was the objection to 
42....K to R 3,43 Rto R6 ch, 
PtoKt 3? 44 RtoR 7 is then 
useless on account of 44... . Ktt. 
P. Both players seem to have over- 
looked this. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

SECTION V. 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES. 

THE NOTES TO THIS SECTION, WHERE NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFIED, 

ARE BY THE EDITOR. 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

ee : Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

171 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES. 

—-e— 

bed athy 

aS SAS 

Ae A 

ae 
By 

SOWIG Om OTe 
sé 

_ 
PPO a oo 
o 
i) 
wey 

—s 
woe 

26 Ktt. K P 
27 Ktt.Q 

Game 122, played on the 26th of April. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

Black. White. Black. 

B, Excuiscn. = . t. - ®) - t. 3 
to t. 
6 Ay 3 30 Pt. Kt P PtP 
PtoQR3 31 Bt. Kt P RtoK B2 
Kt to B3 32 Kto Kt2(E) K to Bsq(F) 
33 Rto K sq R to Kt 2 (G) 

PtoQKi4 Resigte 
BtoK2 . 
Pt Q3 (A) This gives Black the better 
woe 3 (B) Blocking up his own Q ina 
PtoQ4 dangerous manner. 
Q to Q 2 (C) Threatening to sacrifice the 
QRtoQ sq Kt and attack Q with B, which 
K Rto K sq must win the exchange. It is im- 
BtoQ3 ossible for White now to avoid 
K * 2 ~o loss 

t to : 
P to Kt 4(A) (D) P to K 5 at once scems 
Kt to Kt 3 better. 
ay — (E) B to K 3 were far better. 
K to Kt 2 (F) Threatening to pin the Q B, 
RtoKRs a move evidently overlooked b 
P te B3 C) White x 

to B 3 (C 
Kt to B5 (G@) Curiously decisive, as it is 
BtoK B2 impossible for White to save the B. 
Bt. Q 34 P to K R 4 only loses an addi- 

y 

Bt. R tional P. 

—- 2 

Game 123, played on the 30th of April. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

Black. 
B. Exatiscu. 
Ptok4 
KttoQB3 
BtQB4 
Kt to B3 

White. Black. 
5 P to Q Kt 4(A) B to Kt 8 
6 Pt.Q3(B) PtoQ3 
7 Castles Castles 
8 BtoK Kt5 (C)BtoK3 
9QKttoQ2 Qt.K2(D) 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

172 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 2 

White. Black. 
10 Pwo QR4 PtoQR3 
11 Pt QRS BtoQR2 
12 K to R sq PtoKR3 
13 BtoK R4 QR to Q sq 
14 PtoKt5(E) Bt. B 
15 Ktt. B Pt. P 
16 KttoK3(F) Bt. Kt(@) 
17 Pt. B QtoK 3 
18 Q to Kt sq (H) Pto K Kt4 
19 Bto Kt 3 Kt toQ R2 
20 Pto B4 PtoB3 
21 P to B 5 (I) Kt toR4 
22 PtoR6(J) Pt. RP 
23 Rt. P Q to Q2 
24 PtoQ4(K) Ktt. Beh 
25 Pt, Kt Kt to B sq (L) 
26 Pt. QP PtoKB3 
27 RtoQBsq Kt t. P 
28 Rfr.Bsqt.P Kt to K sq 
29 Qt. P (M) P to Kt d 
30 KttoR 4 PtP 
81 Pt. P O+4P 
$2 Ktto B5 Qt P 
88 RtoK6(N) Rt Q8eh 
34 KtoR2 Q to Q Kt 8 
35 Qt. Q Rt. Q 
86 RtoR?7 RK to Kt 4 
37 Kt t. P ch K to R sq 
38 Kt t, Kt P R to K Kt 5 
39 Rt. Kt RtoR4ch 
40 K to Kt sq Rt. R 
41 Ktt. P RtoR8 ch(O) 
42 Kt. RK Rto K 8 ch 
43 KtoR2 RtoR8ch 
44 Kt. KR Stalemate 

Drawn game. 

[The notes are by Mr. H. E. Bird.] 

(A) This is the key-move to 
Bird’s favourite mode of playing 
the Ginoco Piano. The advance 
of the Pawns on the Queen’s side, 
which constitutes a distinguishing 
feature in the attack, has been con- 
demned by the highest authorities, 
still it is easier to criticise in theory 

than to answer in practice. Thero | 

are various ways of pursuing the 
attack, and the capital games Bird 
manages to get will certainly cause 

it to receive more attention than it 
has done hitherto. Those between 

Bird ». Zukertort, Bird v. Rosen- 
thal, and the above, are all admit- 
tedly among the finest in the 
Tournament, and lovers of novelty, 
if they will excuse a little eccen- 
tricity at the same time, may find 
interest and derive instruction and 
advantage from their study. 

(B) Q to Q Kt 3 was the move 
aay played by Bird, and he 
frequently still adopts it. 

(C) Whether B played thus to 
pin the Knight or planted on K 3 
be preferable must ever remain a 
debatable point. I have latterly 
inclined to prefer the latter as pro- 
bably the sounder course. Change 
at Chess is desirable for real enjoy- 
ment like change of air, so I vary 
my proceedings perhaps more than 
is consistent with prudence, my 
desire being to get as much beauty 
out of the game as I can. 

(D) Zukertort plays Q Kt to K2. 
Rosenthal also did so, but rather 
later. The move in the text of 
Q to K 2 is certainly inferior. 

(E) The play now becomes quite 
animated, and the way the Pawns 
get on is very curious. I recom- 
mend the Chess aspirant to care- 
fully study the progress of the game 
from this point; it is far above 
average interest. 

(F) The Knight assumes & 
threatening attitude. 

(@) And Black accordingly walks 
him off. 

(H) A very useful move. 

(I) Exceedingly well played. 

(J) Again very effective. 

(K) This position, which is very 
favourable for White, results, as 
will be seen, from a singular com- 
bination of moves. 

(L) Blackapparently has nothing 
better; besides, he cannot make 
the essential move of P to K B3 
now, for White could check at Q 

| fron 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES, 173 

R 2, which would practically decide 
the game. 

(M) Instead of thus hurriedly 
capturing the Kt Pawn, White 
should have played P toQ 5, which 
would have given him a splendid 
game. 

(N) It was not judicious on 
White's part to surrender these 
strong centre Pawns unless he 
could see his way to win right off. 
White was playing at a very rapid 
pace; by taking alittle more time 
he might, perhaps, havo seen that 
Kt t. R P ch would win thus: 

Kt t. R P ch K toKt2(best) 

Q to Kt 7 ch K t. Kt ? 
Rt. BP ch Kt t. R 
t.Q K to Kt 2(A) 
Q to K 7 ch K to Kt 3 
BR t. Kt ch, and wins. 
RQ8ch 

K to R 2, and owing to the position 
of Black's Kt, White must win with 
proper play. 

(O) Acapital resource for Black, 
which White should have foreseen. 

[This game throughout occa- 
sioned much interest, and the stale- 
mate at the finish caused much 
amusement to all excepting White. ] 

Game 124, played on the 2nd of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

B. Exsauiscn. IL. EB. Bra. 
1PtoQ4 Pto K B4(A) 
2PteQB4 KittoK B3 
3 KttoQB3 PtoK 3 
4PtoQR3 BtoK 2 
5 Bto K B 4 (B) Castles 
6 PtoK3 PtoQ Kt3 
7 KttoB3 B to Kt 2 
8 BtoQ3 Kt to K 5 
9 PtoKR4 Kt t. Kt 
10 Pt. Kt BoQ3 
11 Bt. B Pt.B 
12 QtoQ B2 PtoK R38 
13 PtoK R5 Kt to B 3 
14 KttoR4 Kt to R 4 
15 PtoK B3 K to B sq 
16 P to Kt 4 Ktt.Q@BP 
17 Bt. Kt Rt.B 
18 Pt. P () to Kt 4 
19 K to B2 KRtoQBsq(C) 
20 QRto K Ktsq Rt. BP 
21 Qt Rt.Q 
22 Rt.Q Pt. 

23 Kt to Kt 6 K to B 2 
24 KttoR8ch K to Kt sq 
25 Kt to Kt 6 PtoK Kt5(D) 

White Black. 
26 PtoQ5 Pt. Pat B3 
27 RtoR4 KR to B7ch 
28 K to Kt 3 PtoB7 
29 RtoB4 PtoK 5 
30 RtoB3 B to R 3 (EB) 
31 RtP Rt R 
82 Kt. R K to B2 
33 P to K 4 B to Kt 4 
34 K to K 3 PwoQR4 
35 Kt to R 4 BtoR5 
36 K to Q2 K to B3 
37 KttoB3 PtoQ Kt4 
38 K to B sq PtoQ Kt5 
39 Pt.P Fie 
40 Kt to Q 2 B to Kt 4 
41 K to Kt 2 K to Kt 4 
42 K to Kt 3 Kt P 
43 K t.P Bt Q6 
44 Kto BR 5 K to Kt 5 
45 K to Kt 6 K to B5 
46 K to BZ BtP 
47 Kt.PatQ2 BtQP 
48 Kt. P BtoR7 
49 Kt to B sq PtoK 5 
50 KtoK 7 Kt. P 
51 Kttw Kt3ch KtoK 4 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

174 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMEN?. 

White. Black. 
52 Kio B8 P to Kt 4 
53 K to Kt 7 K to B5 
54 KttoK Rich KtoB6 
55 K to B6 PtoK 6 
Resigns. 

[The notes are by Mr. H. EK. Bird.] 

(A) If the view of the very 
highest authorities that P to K B 
4 for opening move of first player 
is not advisable, the reasons for 
second player not adopting it 
should be still more forcible. My 
opinion is that P to K B 4 is the 
best move on the board for the 
party eommencing. It at once 
effects something by stopping P to 
K 4 I speak with the utmost 
diffidence and respect, knowing 
that Zukertort, Steinitz, Black- 
burne, and Mason all oppose it, 
and never adopt it. On the other 
hand, it is only right to mention 
that both Anderssen and Morphy 
approved it for first player. At the 
same time I cannot quote any great 
authority (except practice) to justify 
its adoption for second. 

(B) A very favourite move of 
Mason’s, and also of Blackburne’s. 
Harrwitz used to adopt it so suc- 
cessfully that Morphy expressed a 
high opinion of it. I boldly oppose 
the B at B 4 by B at Q 3, and 
have been fortunate with it against 
both Mason and Blackburne. In 

the very fine game won hy Steinitz 
playing second against Mason the 
latter adopted it, but showed an 
unusual lack of judgment. In 
his succeeding moves he allowed 
his Bishop thus placed at B 4 to 
be attacked by P at K 4 and taken 
off by Kt, which proved fatal to 
him. The opening moves were : 

Masoy. Sreryirz, 
1PtQ4 PtoQ4 
2BtoK B4 PtooQB4 

3 Pt. P, and he thus allowed his 
opponent to take possession of the 
centre of the board with P to K B 
3and P to K 4, and got a wretched 
game, 

(C) I considered that the pos- 
session of the Q B file was more 
than an equivalent for White's 
attack, which, moreover, I did not 
regard with great apprehension. 

(D) Quite necessary to play thus 
without loss of time, as White could 
otherwise play P to R 6, threaten- 
ing to draw, make a Queen, or 
checkmate. 

(E) After the exchange of Rooks 
the end-game became very inte- 
resting. Black's extra Pawn on 
the Queen’s side required so much 
attention from White King that 
Black was enabled to get his ma- 
jesty to K B 6 just in time to 
secure victory. 

Game 125, played on the Ist of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black, White. Black. 
A. SELLMAN. Ri. Exeutsce. 6 PtoK 5 Kt to K 6 
1PtK4 PtoK 4 7 Castles KttoB4 
2K KttoB3 Q Kt to B3 8 Bt. Kt QPtB 
3 Bto Kt 5 PtoR3 9 Kt t. P Kt to K 3 
4BtoR4 Kt to B3 10 KttoBS5(A) Qt.Q 
5 PtoQ4 PtP 11 Rt.Q Pto K Kt3 
Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 

12 Kt to Kt 3 
18 PtooK B4 
14 Kt to K 4 

aSwwn 

ARESWROOCMNAUARE Ie 
ROM UR UAW 

eo of 

= 

A 

no” or 

et et et ee et 
* s 
Tia 

r ow 

_ 
i | 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES. 

Black. 

B to Kt 2 
Castles 
PtoB3 
Bt. P 

ake 
> 
8 
A 
te 

SSSLESE 
a 

s 

SAU RRA DARA 
oer oe 
es iS 
© 
Sw ow 

175 
White. Black 
34 Kt toQ2 R to Q sq 
35 Kt to B38 PtoB4 
36 PtoK R4 RtoQ6 
37 RtoQBsq E to K 2 
Drawn game. 

(A) Leading to early exchanges 
and portending a draw, 

(B) 25 P to Q B 4 seems the 
most effectual way of securing the 
draw, for which both are playing. 

(C) If White takes the offered 
doubled Pawn it is clear that he 
will lose the K KR P in return, or 
be subject to perpetual check : 

Game 126, played on the 5th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

QO thre Bit oto 
Pal 
ot 
oe 

Lo UA 
sreerce 
wees 
_ 
ed a 
o_o 
> 
— 

29 Bt P R to K7 ch 

30 K to Kt sq BtoB6 

31 RtoKBsq RB to Kt7ch, 

and Black has a perpetual check. 
White. Black. 

18 BtoQ3 Bto B4 

19 BtB Kt t.B 

20 KttoQ7 K BR to K sq 

21 Ktt.Bch P t. Kt 

22 KttoB3 Kt t.P 

23 Ktt. P RtoK7 

24QRwQsq KttoB4(B) 

25 RtoB2 Rt.R 

26 Kt.R R to QB sq 

27 RtoQ2 K to Kt 2 

28 K toB3 R to B 7 (C) 

29 Rt.R Kt to Q5 ch 

30 Kto K 4 Ktt.R 

3L P to Q Kt 4 K to Kt 3 

32 Pto K Kt3 P to B4ch 

33 KtoK 5 PtoB3ch 

34 K to Q6 K to B2 

35 K to Q7 PtwoKR4 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

176 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

White. Black. (B) The — sept ; anes 
= t. P seems better, an ess ite 
2 ig a bee play R to B2 would result in the 
88 Kt to B 2 Kt to K 2 gain of both the Queen's Pawns, 
39 K to Q 6 P to Kt 4 leaving twodangerous ed Pawns 
40 KttoK3(D) Ktto Bsqch on the Queen's side. If 25 Rto B 
41 KtoB7 Kt to K 2 2,R +t. R, 26 K t. R, K to Kt 2, and 
42 K to Q7 Kt to Kt 3 Black has won a Pawn, 
43 Ktt.P Kt to B sq ch (C) An injudicious exchange of 
44 K to Q6 Kt to Kt 3 Rooks, throwing away all chance of 
45 Kt to K 3 Kt to K 2 the draw for which Black is play- 
46 PtoBSd Kt to Kt sq ing. The White King enters the 
47 KtoBd K to K 2 game, while the Black King is 
48 KttoQich KtoQ2(E) hopelessly confined. 
49 Kt to B4 Kt to K 2 (D) White has manceuvred admi- 
* ze He . y bof A 4 sig and Black cannot now avoid 
c the loss of a Pawn. 
52 KttoQs(F) KwQ2 (E) Black has only a choice of 
53 PtoRS Kt t.P evils. If he goes to the Queen’s 
54 PtoRG Kt to K 5ch side he must lose his King’s Pawns ; 
55 K to Kt 6 Kt to Kt 4 if he sticks to that side of the board 
8 Seta oa ri g - his Queen’s Pawns will both fall. 
58 Ktt.P Kt to R2 (F) The game is now lost how- 
59 KttoR7ch KtoB2 ever Black play: the passed King’s 
60 Pto Kt3 K to Kt 8q Rook’s P occupies the Knight 
6l P to Kt6 Resigns. and the Queen’s Pawns must fall. 
The end-gameas played by Englisch 
(A) If 11 Bt. Kt, 12 Pt. B,Q from the 34th move is a perfect 
t. P,13 R to K sq, Q to Q 3, 14 Kt specimen of patient skill. In such 
t. P, recovering the Pawn with an positions,as Mr. Cochrane was fond 
equal game. of saying, there is no hurry. 
——+4— 

Game 127, played on the Srd of May, 
FOUR KNIGHTS’ GAME. 

White. Black. 
S, RosextTu at, B. Exauiscu, 
1PtoK4 PtoKk 4 
2Kttc.QB3 KttoQB3 
3 KttoB3 Kt to B3 
4 Bto Ktd B to Kt 5 
5 Castles Bt. Kt 
6 Kt Pt. B Castles (A) 
7 Bt. Kt Ke Fé: B 
8 PtQ3 PtcQ3 
9 BtoK 3 PtoB4 
10 PtoB4 PtooKR3 
11 Kt to K aq Kt to Kt 5 
12 PtoK KR Ktt. B 

White. Black. 
13 Pt. Kt PtoB4 
14 Pt. P Bt. P 
15 Pto K 4 BwK3 
16 Kt to B3 R to Kt sq 
17 R to Kt sq Q to Q2 

Drawn game. (B) 

(A) Taking the K P with Kt 
would be obviously bad. 

(B) All comment on such a game 
is superfluous. Neither party is in 
earnest, and the draw is offered and 
accepted at the first decent oppor- 
tunity. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 
B. Esauiscu. 

OONT OS em OTOH 
Z 
& 

10 

cig tte 
SOUR 

eeaee 
x poOf 
= 
[Je] 

~ 
a 
AAR A TORTOOVUA 
a st 
Ao oO 
a) on 
5 

oe 
es 

25 RtoB?7 

White. 

S. Wisawrr. 

BOA 
So 
ra 

aie 

ada 
Che 
= 

~ 

HO 
& 
= 
& 

srs 
om 
Oo om 

w 

SeONat Pp whe 
Ano 
oe 
S 

RO 

= bo 

= 
val 
co 
+ 
° 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES, 177 
Game 128, played on tlie 2nd of June. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

Black. White. Black 
S. RoseNTHAL. 296 Rt. P Rt. P 
PtoK 4 27 KtoB2 P to Kt 3 
Q Kt to B3 28 RtoQ7 R to Kt 3 
Kt to B3 29 K to Kt 3 K to Kt 2 
BtoB4 30 RtoK 7 PtoR4 
PtoQs 81 PtoK 4 Pt. P 
Castles 32 Rt. P KtoB3 
B to Kt3 33 RtoRS R to Kt 5 
Pt. B 34 PtoR4 RtoQ5 
Kt to Kt 5 35 Rto Kt 5 KtoK 8 
Kt t. B 36 RtoRS5 RtoQ4 
PLE 37 RtoR7 PtoB3 
B to Kt 5 38 RtoR +4 P to Kt 4 
QtB3 39 RtoQ Kt4 K to B4 
Bt. Kt 40 Rto R4 RtoQ6 
PtoB4 41 RtoR5dch K to Kt 3 
Qt QP 42 Pt. P Pt. P 
Pt.Q 43 R to R 6 ch K to B4 
PtoQ6ch 44 RtoR Sch K to B3 
Pt. P 45 RtoR6ch KtoK 4 
P t. R, Q's 46 RtooKkK RG RtoQs 
Rt, Kt (A) Drawn game. 
PtoQB4 
PtP (A) Black has succeeded in win- 
K to B sq ning a P, but the position does not 
R to Kt sq allow of more than a draw. 

Game 129, played on the 4th of May, 

RUY LOPEZ. 

Black. White. 
B. Exoriscn. 11 Qto Kt3 
Pto K 4 12 PtoQR4 
KttoQB3 13 BtoK 3 
PtoQR3 14 PtoK BS 
QPt.B 15 Qto Ksq 
BtoKKt5(B) 16 QtoB3 
B t. Kt 17 Qto Kt 3 
Qt Q3 18 P to Kt 3 
PtoBs5 19 K to Kt 2 
Castles 20 P to Kt 4 
QtoK 3 21 KtoR2 

PRINCETON U 

ata 

HR tHOnW A Ry 

| ‘ai Ti 
NIVERSITY 

178 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. 
22 PtoB3 BtoB4 

24 Q to B2 Bt. B 

25 Kt t. B QtoB4 

26 Ktto BS R to Q2 

27 RtoQ2 K R to Q sq 

28 K R to Qsq Kt to BS 

29 PtoQ4 QtoBS5 

30 P toQ 5(!) (F) Pt. P 

31-P t. P K to Kt sq (G) 

32 QtoK 4 Qt. Q 

33 Pt. Q K to Kt 2 

84 RtoK B2(H) Pto B3 (1) 

35 PtoB4 PtoB4 

36 Ktto K 3 R to K sq 

87 RtoQ Raq K Rto K Bsq 

38 Rto R38 (J) R to Q Bag 

89 R to Kt3 Rto K Bsq 

40 Kt to B2 RtoQ Rsq 

41 K to Kt sq R to K sq 

42 KtoBsq(K) RtoQ Raq 

43 Rfr.B2toB3 Rto K sq 

44 Kt to K3 R to K B sq 

45 Kt to BS R to K sq 

46 Rto Kt 5 . KtoR2 

47 Pto Kt4(!)(L) RP t. P 

48 PtoR5 R to Q Kt sq 

49 Rto Q Kt3 RtoQB2 

50 R to Kt sq Rto Q2 

51 Rto Rsq(!)(M) a tr sq to 
t 

52 Pt. P ch K to Kt sq 

53 Rto RG R to Q sq 

54 Rt. BP Ktt. RP 

55 Rfr. BtoR5 KtoBsg 

56 PtoBd P to Kt 6 

57 Pto Bé (!) (N) P to Kt7 
White mates in two moves. 

[Notes by Mr. Steinitz, from 
Turf, Field, and Farm.) 

(A) Mr. Teed adopted this va- 
riation successfully against Steinitz, 
during the latter’s visit to New 
York. We do not think, however, 
that by proper play the first 
player ought to obtain any ad- 
vantage in this form of attack. 

(B) We prefer 5....Qto B38. 

(C) Black would have done better 
to press the attack on the K’s side 

more systematically by P to K R 4 
at once. 

(D) Threatening to win the Q 
by Kt t. P ch. 

(E) By driving the hostile Q 
from K 3 White has gained time for 
this important defensive measure. 

(F) Excellent play. White presses 
his attack with great energy. 

(G) If Kt t. P, White would 
answer Q to K 4, winning at least 
the exchange, ¢.9. : 

Bil wv '9\016 Kt t. P 

32 QtoK 4 Q t. Q (best) ; 
for if Q to B 4 or Kt 6, White 
would take the Kt with R, and win 
at once by Kt to K 7 if K retakes. 
33 Pt. Q Kt toBd 

34 Kt to K 7 ch, and wins. 

(H) By this fine move the ad- 
versary is prevented from bringing 
the Kt over to the Q side by K 3. 

(I) If Kt to K 3, White would 
have won easily. 
eee Ktto K 3 
35 Pt. Kt Rt. R 
The reason why the other R has 
been removed will now be per- 
ceived. It was to prevent its being 
captured with ch. 

86 Kt to Kt 7, and wins. 

(J) While Black can do nothing, 
White is preparing a series of 
manceuvres which in their context 
form one of the most beautiful 
ending compositions in actual play. 

(K) All necessary for his plan. 
He will not allow the adverse Kt 
entrance into his game at K 7. 

(L) At last the extraordinarily 
deep plot comes to a head. Every- 
thing is protected on White’s side, 
and by splendid strategy he has 
prepared victory on the Queen's 
wing. 

(M) The execution of the plan 
is quite in keeping with the whole 
masterly design. 

(N) An elegant finish to a most 
beautiful ending. 

inal from 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

White. 

B. EN@iscu. 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES, 

Game 130, played on the 10th of May. 

179 

1 
2 

P to K 4 
K Kt to B3 

3 Bto Kt 5 

CONG 

10 
11 
12 
13 

PtoQ3 

Kt to B 3 (A) 
Bto B4 

B to Kt 3 
Castles 
PtoKR3 
Pt. P 
PtoQ4 

Kt to K 5 
Bto Kt 5 

14 PtoB3 

15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 

BtoR4ch 
Ktt. BP 
BtK3 
Kt to K 2 
Pto B38 
BtoQ B2 
Kt to Q2 
Q to K sq 
Kt to B 4 

24 Bt. B 

25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 

Rt. Kt 

R to K B sq 
Kt to B3 
PtooKR4 
Qt. P 
Kt t. Q 

Kt to Kt 6 
Kt to B4 

B to Kt 3 
Kt t. B 
RtP 

QR to K B sq 
R to Kt 5 ch 
RtoK5 

RUY LOPEZ. 

Black. White. Black. 
J. Moxtimgr, 39 R(Bsq)toB5 Kto Kt 3 
PioK 4 40 Bto B2 K to Kt 2 
Qto Kt B3 41 RtoKtich KtoBsq 
Kt to B3 42 BtoB5 RtoQB2 
Kt to K 2 43 R to K 6 R (B2) to B3 
PtoB3 44 R to K 2 RtoB2 
PtoQ4 45 K to R2 P to Kt 3 
Kt to Kt 3 46 KtoR3 PtoQR4 
B to K Kt 5 47 Bto Kt 6 R to K Kt 2 
BtoK3 48 KtoR 4 K to Kt sq 
PtP 49 Bt. P Rt R 
PtoK5 50 Kt. R Kt to K 6 ch 
BtoQ38 51 Kto B4 K to Kt 2 
B to B 2 (B) 52 BtoB3s RtoB3ch 
Pt. P 538 KtoK 3 Kt to Kt 6 
K to B sq 54 BR to K sq RtoBé 
PtoK R3 55 KtoQ8 K to B3 
R to B sq 56 Rto K 8 K to Kt 4 
Kt to K 5 57 RtoKt8ch Resigns. (D) 
PtoB4 
K to Kt sq (A) Taking the offered Pawn 
QtoRS would cost a piece. 
Qto K2 5 Ktt.P PtQB3 
Bt. Kt 6 B moves Q to R 4 ch, 
Kt t. B 4 oa 
Pto K Kt4 winning the Kt. 
PtoK R4 (B) The object of this move is 
R to R2 not very evident. 
5 " Q (C) This move loses a Pawn quite 
R to B sq needlessly. 33..., Kt toQ7 would 
Q Rto B2 avoid any loss. 
RtoR3 (D) His best move is to go to 
R to Q 2 (C) B 5 and be mated: otherwise he 
R t. Kt loses the Kt and dies of slow tor- 
Kt to B3 ture. Mr. Mortimer played very 
K to Kt 2 weakly in the early games of the 
K to R3 Tournament, but improved by 
R(K3) toQ3 practice. 

NIVERSITY 

PRINCETON U 

180 

White. 
RB. Exaniscn. 
1PtwK 4 

AUWh 
So 
© 
wa 
- 

ee 
PONE SOM Hapesn 
WWD RO 
ssorske 
Ros 
© 
OS i 
SS 
ow 

White. 
G, H, Mackgnatt. 

a 
s 
OAZO 

mo wh 
2 

con 

— 

~~ re 
_ 

a 

— 

or 

Ona 
5.0. ee 
OnORE 

~eP o. 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Game 131, played on the 14th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
Black. White. Black. 

G,. H. Macxeyzre, 22 RtoQ sq Qt QBéd 
P to K 4 23 PtoK R4 K to Kt 2 
KttoQB3 24 PtoRS PtoK B4 
PtoQR3 25 Pt. K Kt P RPt. P 
Kt to K B3 26 BtoQ5(A) PtP 
PtoQ3 27 Bt. B Qt. B 
Bto Q2 28 P to Q Kt 3 RtoK B2 
Bto K 2 29 Rto Qs QtoQB4(B) 
P to Q Kt 4 Drawn game. 
Q Kktt. K P 
Pt. Kt (A) Losing a Pawn, which could 
Castles not, however, be saved without 
PtoQR4 subjecting White to a strong 

t. B attack. 

P to Kt 5 
RtoQR3 (B) Black is content to have es- 
RtoQ3 eaped all possible dangers, and 
BtoK Kt 4 offers a draw; there seems no rea- 
Bt. Kt son why he should not have at- 
BtoQB3 tempted to turn his numerical 
P to K Kt 3 superiority to some account by 29 
Qt. R KR to BS, and 30 Rte Q 3, 

te 

Game 132, played on the 16th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

Black. White. Black. 
B. Exoriscn. IS QRwQBsq KRto K sq 
Ptok4 19 RioK BS PtoK BS 
KttoQB3 20 Rt K RS PoQB4 
PtoQR3 21 Pt.QBP KBPt.P 
KttoK BS 22 Pt. P Rt KP 
PtP 23 BtoQ4 RtoQ4 
BtoK 2 24 Bt. Kt P Bt. P ch 
Kt to K 4 25 K to R sy 
KttoQBa4 Drawn game. (B) 
QPtB 
Kt to K 3 (A) The eager desire of both 
Kt t. Kt parties to make exchanges shows 
B to K : that they have no higher aspira- 
Q to Q2 tion than to secure a draw. 
Castles Q R (B) Which is now accepted, as 
BtoQ4 some players would think, slightly 
Q t. Kt prematurely. The position admits 
R t.Q (A) of much interesting play. 

Iniginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 

B. Exoniscn. 
1PwK4 

2 KttoQ B3 
3 Ktto K BS 
4 BtoK2 

5 Castles (A) 
6PtP 

White. 

B. Enetiser. 

bet ta ha od 

Seeoce 
ted 
owe 

OQ ko ty 
Eons 
soc = 
GOdWROH 

<8 
hal 
R 
Q 
— 

by 0 
fod 

we CVONauvbewenwe COGN Ore Ob 
or 
cc ~—* 
Ss 
al 
os 

Ven ie ee ee ee 
ARCKOCAR SA 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES. 

18) 

Game 133, played on the 22ad of May. 

SICILIAN. 
Black White. Black. 

G. Il. Mackenzir. 15 BtoB4é PtoB3 
PwQB4 16 BtoQé Bt. B 
PtoK3 17 QtB 
to Q x 3 Drawn game. (B) 
Pugs . (A) 5 P to Q 4 before Castling 
Ktt. P is far more in accordance with the 
Q t. Kt principle of the Sicilian. 

Bt Q3 (B) One of the most flagrant 
Kt to Q 5 examples of a premeditated draw 
Kt t. B ch throughout the Tournament, show- 
Castles ing the uselessness of making 
B to K 2 players play out a draw thrice, if 
P to Q Kt3 conten with that result. Such 
K to R sq mockeries of games defy comment. 

—- ee 

Game 134, played on the 31st of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

Black. White Black 
S. RosenTHat. 23 Q to Kt 4 Q to Kt 4 
PtoK 4 24 QtwQ4 ( to K 4 (B) 
Kt toQB3 25 QtoQ2 Q to K Kt 4 
Kt to B3 26 QtoK B2 Bto K3 
B to B 4 (A) 27 PweQB4 P toQ Kt3 
PtcQ3 28 Bto B2 PtoQR4 
PtwQRk3 29 Po QR3 QwQBbe 
P to R 3 (B) 30 BtoR4 B to Q2 
BwQ2 31 Bt B Rt B 
Bt.B 32 QtoQz2 R (Q 2) to Q 
KttoK2 sq (I) 
Kt to Kt 3 33 PtoQKt4 PLP 
Q to K2 34 Pt. P () to K Kt 4 
Castles K R 35 QtoK B2 R to R sy 
Kt to R2(D) 36 KttoBib(G) QtoBs 
QtoB3 37 Rto K Bsy QtoK4 
Ktt. P 28 Q toQ4 Qt. Q (AD 
Qt. Kt 39 Kt t. Q K Rto Q Baq 
Kt to B 3 4) Kt to Kt 5d Rt R 
K BR to K sy 41 Rt. KR K to B sy 
Q BR to Q sy 42 RiR7 Kt to K sq 
R to K2 43 Kt toQ4 K to K 2 
Q kK to K sy 4 PtoKts(l) PtoKt3 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

182 

White. 

45 K to B2 
46 Kt to B 6 ch 

rs 
“I 
al 
oe @ 

to 
to 

Rico oy 
Sete 5° SS 
Bo yO rg tT bo 
oe 

RS OO SO Se OO Or OT OO Ot Or Orr Or 
GALS SSeEGORROME SEE 
No Qo 

o: 
33 
a 

ARR nema RR 
SSSSSSSTSSS "SS 

id be pb Oe 

Ro 
5 a 
mA 

ROKR pi 
a 

a 

= 

S 
2 nthe, Se 
oo 

77 RtoR 

78 KtoB 

79 RtoR 

80 K to Kt 2 
81 RtoQ Bsq 
82 KRto B6 ch 
83 RtoBs 
84 Kto R38 
85 KtoR 4 
86 Rto B6 ch 
87 RtokK R6 
88 Rto Q Kt6 
89 Rto Kts 
90 RtoKRS8 
91 RtoR5 
92 RtoR8 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

A 

ss 

a 

oo 
Bo 2 
— 

RVCOR HO RO THAD 
PeNom Ss why 
& 

SSfsssssesrss 
pd 

sso 
a 

Con Oi crak ce 
Fy 28 pS 

we 

a 

RRR ANRC RAN WAR RR 
x 

*Ssssss 
Umino RRO RON 

RAR RROO 
eel MES 
eZ e 

DARA 
HAMS HS 

SSSSISSSSSTSSSSSESS 
Be 

AR DRS RSPR AR RAR 
BAe 

i] 

Rto B6 

Drawn after a few more moves. 

(A) Mr, Rosenthal frequently 
plays his B thus, though it was 

long considered dangerous in the 
Ruy Lopez. It seems to lead to 
an even game, but requires great 
care in the defence. 

(B) Necessary to prevent some 
loss. 

Bors P to Q Kt 4, 

the only other move, would leave 
White with the better game. 

(C) Threatening 15 Kt to KB 5, 
when the Knight cannot be taken 
without the loss of a Pawn. 

(D) To make an opening for the 
Queen. 

(E) Black is so confined that 
he would be happy to escape with 
a draw. 

(F) A necessary precaution, to 
enable him to open his Q R file 
and endeavour to bring his cramped 
Rooks into play. 

(G) To prevent Q to K 4, which 
would give Black possession of the 
Queen’s Rook file. 

(H) This exchange is in White's 
favour, as it brings the Knight 
into powerful co-operation with the 
Rooks against Black’s weak Pawn 
on the Queen’s side. There seems 
= objection to retreating the Q to 

3. 

(I) Effectually blocking the ad- 
vance of the Queen’s Pawns for the 
rest of the game. 

(J) 48....K to Q sq would have 
preserved the Pawn fora time, and 
at the utmost Black can only hope 
to draw in such a confined position. 

(K) Black is now compelled to 
abaudon the P, which is lost 
whether he move K, or Kt, or R. 
He chooses the least evil. 

(L) Pushing the Pawn would 
cause its immediate loss. Against 
correct play White can now only 

I al fri | 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

183 

sup 

(M) There is nothing better, but 
beings 

after this the Black King being in 
front of the Pawn the draw is 
certain. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES. 

Black. 

Game 135, played on the 22nd of June. 

game in spite of his 
He makes every 

wh. 

White. 

effort to win, but is foiled by M, 

Rosenthal’s correct defence. 

extra Pa 

draw the 

~ geo 
wok te 2 Fa 2S F Ona Fao on a = evs 2 2 
AR OOH Rip Mp SMM, rm a cm et On, pn oa — 28's athe 
SSSSaesusssessiessesssssuuesh® ggze 3h 
PPB 8 ad Bet i a i a a a 2-52 SAB 
2 6 € ae 
= 4.39 233 a aus . 3 228 > 
war 2 a1 vos 8S =) a Seg ue af = 2268 © e 
aUownoes 2.08%, .o8uedane, a. 38 a oe ~ Op, op 
SSSSSLSISSsSSSSsSSSSEBasgaus ATEEA ss s 
23 0 2 A Aa A 2 Ooo Oy OR 8 OR Oy ER On be pe Oa ee oe pe on Oe Sesh Gan 3 
BVIVIFSSSRIAGRSSRSReRsseesss ~~ Bs 593 
. a) 
cere rere gf goki gab tagnsaagaasanoans 
A o8sehes2resislee2 SstSuSSFssssFssssssssEs 
wa FB m8 6 8 By ce om py eS 0 8 
a 

=) o TM Sa S + 2 20 90 

4 Fis f=) bd = he a vir 
sate 9 oD! 727 ~ = 14 See Soa. ait eo 
BMS SR CEM M Oa SoS cag Te = Sa OSM OOM OME uM OR 
g2osssyscustukbig sess san SESSSESSEEEEERES 
CMBORKOAMRREAMOCHOZM RRM BA uta mA Aaa mid 

ee OO OS CAS SBR SSS NARIRSSRARSaSRIVSS 

ITY 

PRINCETON UNIVERS 

184 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White may win the B for his K B 
P, he would only draw. 

(D) Threatening mate in 2, but 
as the move involved the certain 
loss of the Q B P,and great danger 
from the two passed Pawns, it re- 
quired great nerve and accurate 
calculation before it was ventured. 

(E) 57 K to K 4, bringing the 
Kf in reach of his Pawns, in combi- 
nation with the following series of 
moves, might have won the game. 

(F) Beautifully ype If the 
B be taken the Kt P queens. 

(G) Were the K now at K 4. 
White would win. [See Note (E.)] 
Ifél R to R38, 62 K to BS (1), 
and Black cannot save the game. 
As it is the Black K, being in front 
of White's P, it becomes a well- 
known drawn position. 

(H) The rapidity of Englisch’s 
play, in connection with his extreme 
accuracy, is very remarkable. He 
only expended three-quarters of an 
hour of his own time throughout 

this lengthy game. Of course he 
had for his own calculations the 
whole four hours employed by his 
adversary, who generally took his 
full allowance of time. An unfortu- 
nate episode occurred during this 
game. Atacertain stage M. Rosen- 
thal, who is of a nervous disposition, 
had neglected his score, was unaware 
of theexact numberof moves played, 
and applied to Mr, Englisch for the 
information, which he refused to 
supply, stating that it was his oppo- 
nent’s duty to keep his own score. 
In this contention he may have 
been legally right, but the refusal 
was not made in that spirit which 
should animate generous opponents, 
As it happened the incident oc- 
curred at the 46th move, when M. 
Rosenthal was in no danger of 
losing the game through the time 
limit, but he went on to the close 
of the game in blissful ignorance 
of whether he was or was not in 
danger. The point perhaps re- 
quires definite regulation in any 
future Tournament, 

Game 156, played on the 23rd of June. 
FOUR KNIGHTS’, 

White. Black. 

B. Esxoriscm, S. Rosenrnan. 
1PtoK4 P to K 4 
2QKttoB3 Q KttoB3 
3 KttoB3 Kt to B38 
4 Bto Kt 5 Bto Kt 5 
5 Castles Castles (A) 

6 PtoQs P to Q 3 (B) 
7 Bto Kt 5(C) Bt. Kt 

8 Pt. B Pto K R3(D) 
9 BtooK R4 B to Kt 5 

10 PioK R3 B to Q2(E) 
11 KR to Kt sq P to Q Kt 3(?) 
12 PtoQ4 R to K sq 
13 Rto K sq P to Kt 4 (?) 
14 Ktt. Kt P(F) Pt. Kt 

15 Bt. P P t. P (?) (G) 

White. Black. 
16 Pt. P R to K 4 (+) 
17 Pt. R Q Ktt. K P(?) 
18 PtoB4d Kt to Kt 3 
19 Bt.B QtB 
20 Bt. Kt Qto K 3 
21 PtoK 5 Pt. P 
22 Pt. P Kt to B 5 (?) 
23 QtoB3 Resigns. 

(A) This was the last game 
pla ed in the Tournament, and yet 

think the first in which this par- 
ticular variution of the Four 
Knights’ Game was _ played. 
Steinitz’s defence, 3 P to K Kt 
8, certainly did not turn out satis- 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES. 185 

factorily in any instance, and there 
seems no other way of avoiding the 
double Ruy Lopez to which this 
Opening leads. Here, if Black 
play 5 P to Q 3, 6 Kt to Q 5 gives 
the better game. If 6 B to 
B 4, 7 P to Q 4, as played in one 
of Zukertort’s games against 
Rosenthal, gives a decided advan- 
tage. 

(B) This, or taking the Q Kt, is 

absolutely necessary to save the P. 

(C) A move that cannot a pa- 
rently be prevented, but which 
gives Black a most confined game. 

(D) Perfectly useless, as M. 
Rosenthal in ordinary play would 
have seen that it could not be ad- 
vantageously followed by advancing 
the Kt P. 8....QKttoK 2, 
at once accepting the doubled P, 
seems the best way to avoid any 
serious loss. 

(E) Under the circumstances 
taking the Kt was less disadvan- 
tageous; the Kt P might then have 
been advanced on the B with com- 
parative safety. 

(F) A perfectly safe sacrifice. 

(G@) M. Rosenthal was evidently 
completely worn out by the con- 
tinued hard work of the Tourna- 
ment and physically unfit for Chess 
when he played this game, incre- 
dible on the part of the Paris 
champion, had we not seen a like 
breakdown on the part of our own, 
in his last three games. 

TR inate K to Kt 2 

is absolutely necessary. 

16 RtoK3 Kttol{2(best) 
17 Bt. Kt ch Kt. B 

18 Pt. Pch K to Kt 2, 

and Black has still some chances. 
Further comment is superfluous, 

Game 137, played on the Ist of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
B. Exouisce A. SELiMAN, 18 Q to Q 4(B) PtoQB4 
1PtoQ4 PtoK 3 19 Pt. P ep. Kt t. B (C) 
2PtQB4 PtoKB4 20 Pt. B es 
3Q Ktto B38 K Kt to B3 21 Q Rto K sq Kt to B 4 
4KttoB3 ° BitoK2 22 Qt. FP RtoQ2 
5 PtoK3 P to Q Kt 3 23 Kt t. Kt Rt. Q 
6 BtoK2 B to Kt 2 24 Ktt.Q RtoQ2 
7 Castles Castles 25 PtoK Bd Rt, Kt 
8 PtoQ Kt3 PtoQ3 26 PtooK BS Pt? 
9 Bto Kt 2 Q Kt to Q2(?) 27 Rt P RK to K B sq 
(A) 28 Rt. R ch Kt. R 
10 KttoK Kt5 Qto Bsq 29 Rto K 6 K to B2 
11 Ktt KP Rto B2 30 Rto R6 K to Ki 2 
12 PtoQ5 PtoQR3 31 Rt QRE Kto B2 
13 BtoQ3 P to Kt 3 32 PtoBS PtP 
14 PtoK4 PtP 33 Rt. RP R to B2 
15 Ktt. K P Kt t. Kt 34 PtoK R3 PtoBd 
16 Bt. Kt K BtoB3 35 Pt. P Rt. P 
17 Bt. B kt t. B 86 PtweQR4 PioR4 
Jriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

41 Rto RG 
42 PtoR7 (!) 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Black. 
PtoR5 

RtoR5 
Rto R 8 ch 

K to K 2 
R to R 5 (D) 
Resigns. 

(A) Owing to the form of close 
ay which he has adopted, Black 
a slightly inferior game; but 
this is a blunder, throwing away 

a P, 

White 
Bh, Exauisen. 
1 PtoK 4 
2 Kt tok B3 

Reseed s 
RAne 8 
wPROCT iE we FO 

001 OS Or ce 
moORE 

POmeo 
OQnROnWRFOVOnK RUE 
sPssksass 
OAR eros e 
2 ce 

ae 8 
sésess 
a RO 
ma OP 
Go 

Bohm Oo wsI co ct 
oe 
Sees 
TAR SSS 
bs - 
SW yd 
re 
o 
— 

t+ has Bao e~ Lael oh o-BooBar hot Dhak 
a 

BS bo 6D bo bo bo bo 
ODIAR 

¢ S x 

Hot 

(B) Played to tempt P to Q B 4, 
and the simplifications that follow. 

() Losing another P, 19...-. 
Bt. P was better. 

(D) This is equivalent to placing 
the R en prise, as White’s next 
move shows. 41.... K to B2 
was the only chance left to fight 
for a draw against the two Pawns, 
which would certainly have been 
hopeless against Englisch. 

Game 138, played on the 4th of June. 

SICILIAN, 

Black, White. Black. 

H. E. Bren. 30 BtoQ3 PtoQ4 
PtoQB4 31 Q to K sq Qto BG 

Kt toQB3 32 Qto K 3 QtoK B3 
P to K Kt3 33 PtoBd Rto Be 
PUP 34 R to K 2 K R to B sq 
B to Kt 2 35 Q to Kt 6 Q to Q sq 
Kt to B3 36 QtoQ4 Qo Q3 
P to Q 3 (A) 37 Q to B6 RtoB8 
Castles 38 BR (Q sq) to Q2 Qto Kt3 
Bto Q2 39 RtoK B2 RtoK 8 
R to B sq 40 K to Kt 2 Kt to R4(D) 
Bt. Kt 41 Qto Kt 5 RtokK 6 
PtoQR3 42 RtoB3s Rt. R 
Kt to R 4 43 Kt. R Q to Kt 8 (!) 
Q to R 4 44 RtoQB2(!)(E) Q to Q 8 ch 
Bt. B 45 K to K 3 P to Q5 ch(F) 
Kt to BS 46 Kt. P Q to Kt 8 ch 
Q to K Kt 4 47 Ktok 4 Kt t. P ch 
Kt to K 3 48 KtoB3 Q to Q 8 ch 
QtoQB4 49 K to K 3 Kt to B 8 ch 
Q to Kt 3 (B) 50 K toQ 4 Q to R 8 ch 
Q to B 4 51 KtoK 4 Q to K 8 ch 
P toQ Kt 4 52 KtoB3 Kt toQ7ch(G) 
B to Kt 2 53 K to Kt 2 R to K B sq - 
Bt. Kt 54 Qto K Kt3 Q to Q8 

Kt to Kt 2 55 PtoR 5 PtoK 4 
PtoK4 56 Pt. Kt P Kt to K B8 
Pt. P 57 Qt K3 PtoKR4 
Pt. P. 58 Q to K 6 ch K to Kt 2 
PtoQR4 59 Rto B7 ch Resigns, (H) 

riginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ENGLISCH’S GAMES, 187 

[The notes are by Mr. H., E. Bird.] 

(A) This move I adopted now 
for the first time, having usually 
played P to K 3 at this point. I 
like this better, however. 

(B) With the object of com- 
pelling advance of Q Kt P, which 
weakens White. 

(C) Zukertort thought B t. Kt 
would have been the proper move. 
I should not have objected. With 
the two open files for my Rooks and 
the Pawns in the centre, my game, 
I thiuk, would have been preferable. 

(D) This is premature. R from 
B sq to B 8 would have been much 
better, if not unanswerable. 

MD oi 2% Rto B8 
41 Btoo KB sq R to K 6 
42 RtoQ3 PtoQs 

And Black has a decided supe- 
riority in position, 

(E) An excellent conception for 
forcing a draw. 

(F) Black should not have sacri- 
ficed a valuable Pawn unless he 
could calculate on certain victory. 
Q to K 8 ch and R to K B sq was 
the proper play. White’s King 
must go to B 3. Black then 
threatens P to KK 4. White King 
must apparently retire to Kt 2. 
Q to K 6 would then be decisive. 

(G) This check with the Knight 
at Q 7 loses the game unless Black 
takes R to secure a draw. This, 
of course, he has had on hand for 
some moves, 

(H) Thus terminated a very cri- 
tical and eventful game, Englisch 
remarking, with much candour, “I 
have picked it up in the street.” 

Game 139, played on the Sth of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

18 R to K sq (D) 

19 Kt t. B 

White. Black. 
J. Mortimer. B, ENGLIscH. 
1PtK4 P to Q 4(A) 
2 Ft. Qt P 
3 KtwoQB3 QtoQsq 
4PtcQ4 PtoK8 
5 BtoKk 3 KitoK B38 
6 BtoQ3 B to K 2 
7 QKttoK 2 PitoQKt3 
8 KttoB3 B to Kt 2 
9 Ktto Kt3 Q Kt toQ2 
10 P toB3 (B) Castles 
1l PtoK R4 PtoB4 
13° P'S Kt; P 
13 Bt, Kt Bt B 
I4 QtoB2 QtoB2 
15 Kt to Ktd PtoK R3 
16 K to Bsq K R to Q sq 
17 Kt (Kt 5) to K 4 Ktto Kt5(C) 

Kt t. P 
Kt t. B 

White. Black. 
20 Ktt.Kt(E) Qt. Kt 
21 RtoR3 Q to Kt 3 
22 Kt to Kt 4 B to R3ch (!) 

23 KtoKtsq . QtQ 

24 Kt t.Q RtoQ7 
25 R to Q B sy B to Ki 2 
26 R to Kt 3 QR to Q sq 
27 Pto Kt4 R to Q 8 ch 
23 Rt R Rt. Re 

29 KtoB2(F) RtwQ7ch 
30 Resigns. 

(A) An opening which gives the 
second player an unquestionable 
disadvantage. 

(B) White has now an excellent 
game, but his next few moves are 
not judicious. 

(C) Threatening to take the 

nal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

188 

LONDON CHEs5 TOURNAMENT. 

K B P with Kt, a move which 
Black evidently overlouks. 

(D) He should have taken off 

the K B at once, and would have 
been under no serious disad- 

(E) Or Le would lose the ex- 

change as well as a Pawn. 

(F) Black must win another 
Pawn, so it is as well to be hung 
for a sheep as a lamb. 

Game 140, played on the ILth of June. 

RUY LOPEZ, 

vantage, 
White. Black, 
B, Esa@utscit. 5. WLINAWER, 
1 PtoK4 PtoKk4 
2K Ktto BS Q Kt to B 3 
3 Bto Kt d Kt to Q 5 (A) 
4 Kt t. Kt Pt. Kt 
© Castles Q to Kt4(? B) 
6 BtoB P toQ Kt4(?) 
7 PtoQ3 QtoQB4 
8 PtoQKt4(!) Qto Kt 3(C) 
9 Bt P eh(!) Kt. B 
10 QtoR5ch P to Kt 3(D) 
1] QteQ5ch K to Kt 2 
12 QtR Kt to K 2 (2 
138 PtoQR4(!) Bto Kkt2 
14 Pto R 5 (!) QtoQ B3(F) 
15 Qt P Kt to B4 (G) 
16 Bto Kt2 B to K 2 
17 PtoR6(!) B to R sq 
18 PtoQB3(!)(H) R to K sq 
19 PtP Q to B 7 (1) 
20 BtoB3 Bto K B38 
21 Pt Q5 QtQP 
22 Bt. Bch K t. B 
23 Pt. Kt QtQP 
24 PtoB3 PF 
25 Q to B 5 (J) Qt. Q 
26 Pt.Q RtoK4 
27 RtoQ Bay PtoR4 
28 Ktto R38 Bt BS 
29 QRtoKtsqg PtoRS 
30 PtoRS3 K to Kt 4 
31 Rto Kt 4 Rto K7 
32 PtoB4ch K to R4 
33 Ktet. P Bt, Kt 
34 Rt. B RtoR7 
35 PtoBé PEP 
36 Rt. P ch Resigns. 

(A) The validity of Mr. Bird's 
defence is very doubtful ; it seldom 
answers in any one else’s hands. 

(B) A novelty, I think, of very 
dubious advantage. Such early 
sorties of the Queen are rarely com- 
mendable. 

(C) Taking the Kt P would be 
worse, as White would first play 
B to R 3, and then continue as in 
the game, to even greater ad- 
vantage. 

(D) Necessary, to save the game. 
If 10....Kto K 2,11 Bto Ktibch; 
ifll....K to Q3, 12QtoB?, 
wins; ifll.,..KttoB3, 

12 PtoK 5 PtoK R3 
13 BtoR4 P to Kt4 
14 Pt. Kt ch Qt. P 

15 RtoKsqeh KwQ3 
16 Bto Kt 3ch K to B3 

17 B to K 5, and wins. 

(E) B to Kt 2 at once were cer- 
tainly better, though it would still 
leave White with the better game. 

i+ ee B to Kt 2 
If: 

13 QtoK 8 Kt to B3 

14 Qt K5 Bto Qs 

15 Qto Kt 5 Bt. kt P 
If; 

13 Q to Kt 8 Bt. Kt P 

14 PtoQR4 Kt to B38 

15 PtoRS5 QwB3 

16 Qt. RP B to B 4, wins. 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

FENGLISCH’S GAMES, 

13 Q to Q 8 (best) QtoB3 

14 QtoR4 Bt. Kt P 
Black is better off than in the actual 
game, as the White Q is somewhat 
hampered, though he remains with 
the exchange ahead. 

(F) 14.... Q to R 3 is no 
better, as by playing Q to Kt 8 
White forces the Q to B 3. White 
has escaped all possible dangers, 
and no ingenuity can now sare 
Black’s game. 

(G) Black is one move behind- 
hand: he must guard the Q P, and 
though this Kt cannot be taken at 
once, it must soon fall or worse 
will happen. 

189 

(H) Taking the P at Q 5 would 
be clearly bad: this move leaves 
Black without resource. 

(I) Black’s game is utterly lost : 
he has no better move, as White 
threatencd P to Q 5. 

(J) Black might here with grace 
resign. The reader will be thankful 
to Mr. Winawer for having pro- 
duced one of the liveliest games in 
the Tournament, and ean only wish 
that his venture at originality bad 
met with better success. Mr. 
Englisch’s play has been admirable 
throughout. 

—- 

Game 141, played on the 14th of June. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
G. H, MAcKENZIE. B. ENGiiscn, 12 Castles Q to B2 
1PoQ4 PtoQ4 13 R to K sq Kt t. B 
2 KttoK B3 PtoK3 14 Qt. Kt B to Q2 
3 PtoK3 PwowQB4 15 PtoQ Kt4 
4PtoQB4 KttoK B3 Drawn game. 
5 KttoQB3 KittoQB3 
6 PtoQR3 Pt.QP Another example of the impos- 
7K PtP Bto K 2 sibility of preventing players from 
8 Pw BS Ktto K 5 drawing if they intend to do so, 
9 BtoQ2 Castles For players wishing to make a real 
10 Bto Q Kt Bto B38 contest the game would here begin, 
ll Bt, Kt PtB and not end, 
—o— 
Game 142, played on the 16th of June, 
SICILLAN. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
B. Evausen, G. H, Macxenztz, 9 Bt Q3 PtoQ4 
1PtoK4 PtoQB4 10 Pt. P Kt t. P 
2KttoK BS KttoQB3 11 BtoQ2 Kt t. Kt 
3 KttoQB3 PtoK3 12 Bt. Kt Q to K Kt 4 
4 PtoQ4 Pt. P 13 QtoK B3 PtoK 4 
5 Ktt.P BtoQ Kt 5 14 Castles Castles 
6KttoQKt5 KttoK B3 I KRtKsq BtoK8 
7PtQRS B t. Kt ch 16 BtooK 4 B to Q 2(A) 
8 Ktt.B QtoR4 17 QtoQ3 QR to Q sq 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

190 

White. 

18 Bt.R Pech 
19 BtoK 4 
{t3 

to to ho 

No 

moO 

SWE SST US 

STR = py 

Rm he On 
ic 
eS 

aoe 

je) 
ts 
a 
sssecses! 
er 
wo 

FAOCCOO KORDA 
a 

sess 
CObIM beset eg nd Oo 

an 
+ 
> 

sss 
Anon Zo 
co no ot Oe 

Pi OU I ROW 
x 

ESSESSELSRESSRSERES 

Sssssssss 
AR ee rOooO 
er eh rma 

White. 
G. Tl. Mack enztz. 
1PtoK4 
2 KttoK B38 
3 Bto Q Kti 
4BtoQR4 
5 KttoQB3 
6 Castles 

LONDON CHESS 

I 
BtoK B4 

sge*ssote 
a tog 
— vo i>) 

ARPA ADR AAA eo 
~- wo 
ge we 
to 

sesogss: 

ee ce ee & 

O° oss? 
Aro pOR BORO 
Flag no ne me 

We co ro 

mt On W 
ww 

Ca 
i) 

to 

DR TARTAR AAR UR 
OOBWORR ARORA 
a) 

Sssssssssssss 
bd FS wm BY OD 
ual @ 

TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
52 KtoB3 RtoQR8& 
53 P to Kt 4 ch Ktok 3 
54 Bto Kt 3 RtoQR7 
55 Kt B4 Kt to K 4 
56 R to Q 6 ch K to K 2 
57 R to Q Kt 6 RtRP 
58 Rt. Kt P ch K to K 3 
59 RtoKt6ch KtoB2 
60 P to K Kt 5(B) Kt to Kt 3 ch 
61 KtoB5 Kt to K 2 ch 
62 K to Kt 4 PtP 
63 PtoQB6 RtoQR5 
64 BtoQ6 Kt to Q Bsq 
65 R to Kt 7 ch K to K 3 
66 BtoB5 Pto R 4(!) (C) 
67 RtoB7 PtP 
68 Rt. Kt PtoKt6dis.ch 
69 K to Kt 3 P to Kt 7 
70 R to Kt 8 RtQB5 

Drawn game. 

(A) Arare oversight forso careful 
a player. This move loses a Pawn. 

(B) White has played hard to 
turn his Pawn superiority toaccount 
and win this game, but his habit of 
exchanging and simplifying has 
here told against him, as for a long 
time the position has portended a 
draw. 

(C) This move secures the draw. 
Black is enabled to win both Pawns 
by giving up his Knight, which 
puts an end to White’s hopes, 

— So 

Game 143, played on the 19th of June, 

9PtoKR3(A) PtoK RS 

RUY LOPEZ. 
Black. White. Black. 
B. Eneriscu, 10 BtoK 3 BtoQ2 
P to K 4 1l QtoQ2 Kt to K R2 
KttoQB3s 12 KttoK R2 Pto K Kt 4 
PtoQR3 13 K Rto K sq Kt to K 2 
Kt to K B3 14 BtoQ Kt 3 Kt to Kt 3 
Bto Q Kt 5 15 KttoK Kt4 Kto Kt2 
Castles 16 PtoK B38 QtoQ Bsq(B) 
Bt. Kt 17 PtoQ4 PtoK B3 
PtoQ3 18 QR to Q sq R to K R. sy 
19 KttoK B2 K Ktto Kk Bsq 

inal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ee °° 

— = ——_—_—~_ ~ ~~ 
ENGLISCH’S GAMES. 191 
White. Black. (A) Q B to Kt 5, as played by 
20 KttoK Rsq KttoR5 Englisch against Rosenthal in 
21 BtoK B2 Kt(B) to Kt 3 this position, seems much more 
22 Bt. Kt Kt t. B attacking. 
23 QtoK B2 Kt to Kt 3 (B) The object of this move is 
o to rate = py re not apparent. 
26 Kit to Q3 PtoKR5(0) (C) Giving up any idea of pro. 
97 Ktt. Kt Kt P t. Kt secuting his threatened attack, and 
28 QtoQB4 R to K B sq content to obtain the draw, which 
29 K to B 2 Q to Q sq will now score for both. 
30 QtoQ3 PtoQR4 (D) It is monstrous that the 
31 PtoQR3 R to Q Kt sq game should have been abandoned 
32 Rto K 2 Q to K sq in such a position—at least the 
33 K to K sq P toQ Kt3 form of changing off some more 
34 BtoQR2 pieces should have been gone 
Drawn game. (D) through. 
— 
Game 144, played on the 15th of June, 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 
White. Black. White. Black, 
B, Exe.tscr. Dr. Noa. 27 PtoQR4 Rto B2 
1PtoQ4 PtoK3 98 KtoR2 RtoB4 
2 Pt QB4 PtoQ4 29 Kt toQ 6 RtoB3 
3QKttoB3 PtP 30 KttoB5(F) RtoB4(?)(@) 
4PtoK3 PtoQB4 3L KttoK7ch KtoKt2 
5 Ktto B38 Q Kt to B3 32 Rt. P Kt to K 3 
6 Bt.P PtP 33 P to Q Kt 4 RtoB7 
7 PtP Kt to B38 34 KttoBidch Ktokt3(?)(H) 
8 Castles B to K 2 35 Kt to K 3 Rto B 6(?) (1) 
9PtQ5(A) PtP 36 PtoBS5ch KtoKt4 
10 Kt t. P Castles (B) 37 Pt. Kt PtP 
11 Kt t. Bch Q t. Kt 38 Kt to B sq PtoK 4 
12 Rto K sq QtB4 39 Rt. P RtoR6 
13 P to Q Kt 3 Bto Kt 5 40 PtoR5 PtoK 5 
14 PtoK R38 Q Rto Qsq(?) 41 RtoR7 R to Q Kt 6 
15 Qt B2(C) QtoB4(D) 42 Rt. P R+t.P 
16 Qt.Q Bt. Q 43 RtoK 6 PtoB4 
17 Bto Kt2 PtoQR3 44 P to Kt 3 RtoR5 
18 Bt. Kt Pt.B 45 PtoR6 RtoR6 
19 KttoR4 B to Q 6 (?) 46 K to Kt sq RtoR4 
20 Bt. B Rt.B 47 KttoK 3 Rto RB 6 
21 KttoBd Kt to K 4 48 KtoB2 Rto R7ch 
22 QR to Q sq K RB to Q sq 49 K to K sq Rto R8 ch 
23 Rt.R Rt. R(?) 50 K to Q2 Rto R7 ch 
24 P to B 4 (1) Kt to Kt 3 51 K toB3 Rto R6 eh 
25 R to K 8 ch(E) Kt to B sq 52 KtoKt4() Rt. Kt 
26 Rto Kt8 R to Q2 53 PtoR7 Resigns 

nal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

102 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(A) At once getting rid of the 
solitary Pawn. 

(B) Most players would have 
changed Knights to preserve the 
Bishop. 

a minute advantage in position, 
which he improves to final 
victory. 

(F) Taking the P with Kt were 
not good, as R to Kt 3 would then 

(C) Threatening 

to win the 

Queen. 

(D) If 
15 2% BtokK 3 
16 Rt.B Kt to Kt 5 
17 QtoB3 K Kt toQ4 

18 R to K'5, saving the piece. 
(E) By one or two weak moves 
on Black's part White has obtained 

give Black the advautage. 

(G) Losing a Pawn. R to Kt 3 
would make it difficult for White 

to win. 

(H) Retiring to Kt sq is less 
fatal than this advance. 

(1) A final and 

blunder. 

irreparable 

Kt to Q sq still gave 

some chance of a draw. 

SS eee 

Game 145, played on the 15th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
29 Rt. B QR to Kt2 
30 Q to K2 Q to Q3 
31 QtoK B2 Rto K 2 

32 R to Kt 8 ch 

Resigns. (FE) 

[The notes are by A. B. Skipworth.) 
(A) KP t. Q P was probably the 

correct play. 

I should have had 

an isolated Pawn, but a much freer 

game. 

(B) White has already the better 
position, and it is difficult to say 

what is Black’s best move. 

P toQ 

White. Black. 

B. Exe@uiscr. A. B, Sxrpwortnm. 
1PwQ4 Ptok3 
2PtoQB4 Kt to K B38 
3 KttoQB3 PtoQ4 
4PtK3 Bto K 2 

5 KttoK B3 Castles 

6 Bt Q3 PtoQ B4 
¢PEOP QBPt.P(A) 
8 Ktt. P Kt t. P 

9 Kt t. Kt Qt. Kt 
10 Castles P to KKt3(B) 
ll Qto K2 PtoK 4 
12 Kt to Kt 5 Kt to R3 
18 Kt to B3 QtoK 3 
14 Ptok 4 Kt to B2 
15 BtoQB4 Q to Kt 5 
16 PtoB3s Q to R 4 (C) 
17 KttoQ5 Kt t. Kt 
18 Bt. Kt Bto B 4 ch 
19 BtoK 3 Bt Beh 
20 Qt. B QtoK RS 
21 QRtoBsy Q to K 2 
22 QtoB5 Qto B3 
23 QtoB7 R to Qsq(D) 
24 Bt. Pch K to B sq 
25 BtoQd RtoQ2 
26 Qto Bb ch K to Kt 2 
27K RwQsy - Pte QKt3 
28 Qto Kt 5 RtoQKtsq (?) 

Kt 3, and afterwards B to Q Kt 2, 

‘are more attacking moves, and 

would probably have constituted a 
better defence. 

(C) The Queen is shut out, and 
almost hopelessly. 

(D) A bad move, but T have a 
had game. 

(E) While I was myself extremely 
unwell at this stage of the Tourna- 
ment, and my play consequently 
very feeble, I was more impressed 
by the excellence of the play against 
me in this e than in any ox 
other which I contested. 

ate: 31 rom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

SECTION VI. 

MACKENZIE’S GAMES. 

THE NOTES TO THE GAMES IN THIS SECTION, WHERE NOT OTHERWISE 

SPECIFIED, ARE BY THE EDITOR. 

| 

PRINCETON UNI 

VERSITY 

ie , ¥ Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

195 

MACKENZIE’S GAMES, 

Game 14), played on the 30th of April. 

FRENCH GAME. 

ope ai ® wa owe gf Oda ‘| am 3 Agee 2258 
. ved & Oy a Cn F +t £o eT... oS oe 
gota Faas Sisk eae sus Foes » ~ae., Fae k 
AOR Od MHOOROROZOCRE MEE E 6 Ons a gee des 
MSsSessuSSosssSSssSSesesg a pan aw 2D Zou e 
POPE Oe PAs bt CPE a Ay A hh ga. ae £3 an5 235% 
h o = — 
= 3 833.28 oF of Oo 8 
a! x a mei tS Hr SSSPEKASE 
2PM de 42 an 12 an 233 * = od Sot 8 

re vivi™ i oo +f - Se p Bs Shoe g PREY F & te 
, pide eg me Meo en seete sas aed 
Encode shbAcookMumc 3 AG2e 32 ss 2g2 Fle s 
FuSsSsssusutsavsisssssess go AR e Hes ghee 
fh 3 AE A CP Ay Aly Ps CPt Aa OS Bt ied fy 3 2 yd bet 3 2935368 Se kes A228 
~~ a was S <= ee 

SSSSIBASSSSSSSSISSSzssecse kh Bee 8 ase se 

E ~~ ~ ~ =~ _ 
b= 4 ee oe Ba eee oo tie 
og ews Ate aa eacme 4 PQ aa HS ny POT 1 PR eg ae PT A cr BS 2 pe 
SE MO GM me OMe SS BOM BR SOMOS BomoCkocogoo 
Ae SS ~SulIeursSsmssVs¥sgnsssamsssSessgsssesees 
MA Ra em hon a eA i ee Be ee NR OM OM EM Om OOM OO Oa 

0239 a a o3 + o 

i pe 6. + oe a s+. ee a na? o 
Pe mon Bae Rn me ooh a ca om mn OS or Oa oo SO 
ges OfMe eM osm es B OSGi AON 1a Hye Sore BOK i OM 
es ssisulseqgssssssusmaassessiessi$eessesesg83 
m SOMA MOR MM AM OMA OnA RR ORE OMOM RM OMmeMROMm 
Po MAN Fseek’OacntaAnrAWmwonrnwoacaene Woronceasn am tom o 
SSS SSS SSSA NNG SN ANON GO 03 OD OD OD OD OD ive] 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

196 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

early break-up, but he has now a 
good defensive position. 

(F) Very feeble! He should now 
have pushed on his Knight’s Pawn, 
when he would have had at least 
as good a game as his opponent. 

(G) Not only vacating a square 
for the manceuvre of the Knight, 
but anticipating a combination 
when Black’s Q P might be taken 
or moved, and his (White’s) King 
exposed to an attack from B or Q, 
or both, 

(H) Black purposely played to 
give up the exchange for the 
moment with the idea of breaking 
through into his opponent’s game, 
but he unfortunately made a fatal 
mistake in carrying out the com- 
bination, playing P to Q R 3 in- 
stead of PtoQR4, Though the 
game had been rather blocky, it had 
arrived at an interesting stage, 
and the mistake was the more to 
be regretted. 

(I) The game was easily won 
from this point. 

— + 

Game 147, played on tho 3rd of May. 
ENGLISH OPENING. 

White. Black. 
G, H. Macxexzte. Dr. Noa. 
1LPtoQB4 PtoQR4 
2PtK3 Kt to QBS 
3’ KttoKB3 PwK3 
4 KttoQB3 KttoK B38 
5 PtoQ4 PAP 
6 PLP BtoQ Kt5(A) 
7 BtoQ2 Castles 
8S PtoQRS Bt. Kt 
9 Bt B Kt to K 5(B) 
10 Qto B2 Ktt. B 
11 Qt. Kt R to K sq 
12 Bt Q3 PtoQ4 
13 Castles K R PtP 
14 Bt. QBP R to K 2 
15 Q Rto Q sq R to Q 2 (C) 
16 BtoQ kt3 R to Q3 
17 K Rto K sq Kt to K 2 
18 Ktto K 5 Kt to Q4 
19 Q to K Kt 3 KttoK D3 
20 QtoK B4 P toQ Kt3 
21 RtoK3 B to Kt 2 
22 Rto K Kt3 Qto K2(?)(D) 
23 Qto K Kt 5 P to K Kt 3 
24 RtoK R83 Q to Q sy 
25 QtoK B4 Q to K 2 (?) 
26 QtoKR4 PtoKR4 
27 Qto Kt 5 K to B sq (?) 
28 BtoQR4 Kt to K Kt sq 
29 QtoK B4(E) K to Kt2 (F) 

White. Black. 
30 Ktt. BP Qt. Kt(?) (G) 
31 Qt. R Kt to K 2 
32 Bto Q Kt 3 RtoK Bsq 
33 RtoQ2 KttoK B4 

34 Qtok5ch(H) QtoBS 

5 RwoQBS K to R3 
J6 Qt. Q Rt.Q 

37 Rto B7 BtoK 5 
38 PtoK B3 Resigns. 

(A) The exchange of the K B 
for the Q Kt, intended by this 
move, can never be advantageous. 

(B) Early and needless exchanges 
detract much from the interest of 
many of the games in the Tourna- 
ment. 

(C) Black appears to have played 
throughout with the sole object of 
attempting an attack on the iso- 
lated Q P, which he only carries 
out in a half-hearted way. 

(D) This will compel Black to 
weaken his position by advancing 
his K Kt P. 

(E) Threatening to take either 
Kt P or B P with the Kt. 

(F) Useless: the return of the 
Kt to B 3 is absolutely: necessary. 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

MACKENZIE'S GAMES. 

(G) The sacrifice of the exchange 

is quite uncalled for. 

30.... RK 

to Q 4 led to no further loss. 

White. 
G. H, Mackenzig. 
Pto K 4 

a 
= 
as 
ers] 
J) 

DONT OS Or ORS 
SATOTOOOCIAW 
s*S"SSS 

S 
% 
= 
5 
G 

DOR RR ARS 

62 ww 

- 

BRIE SA a 

by 

re eid oF mee 
fa oe 
= Res 

ada 
yan 

ta 

a] 

SS ets 
Fy 
Ot Os bo 
me 

te 
te 
RMUNOATOUV ACERS ZOD 
H& 
Be 

cme 

30 Kt to Q 4 (K) 
31 K to Kt2 

197 

(H) The P might have leon 
taken with perfect safety, but the 
mode adopted is more certain. 

Game 148, played on the 7th of Muay. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

Black. 

Il. E, Binp. 
PtoK 4 
Kt to Q B3 
Kt to Qs 
BtoB 
Kt t. Kt ch 
Kt to K 2 (A) 
Castles 
PtoQ4 
PtoQ RKC) 
R to R 3 (D) 
Rto K Kt3(E) 
Bto Q3 
Kt t. P 
Bto K Kt 5 
PtoQBs 
BiokK B4 
R to K sq 
QR to K 3(G) 
Ktt. KBP 
BtB 
Q to Kt 4 (1) 
Bto K6 
Q to R 3 (J) 
B to K Kt 3 

K to R3 
R to K Kt sq 
R to Kt 4ch 
PtoB4() 
R to Ksq('!)(N) 
B to KR 4ch 
R to Kt 5ch 
R(Kt5) to Kt 
5 (1) (0) 

White. 
41 Kt to K 6 (P) 
42 K to K 4 

Black. 
B to Kt 5 eh 
Rt. Kt ch 

43 K to Q3 P to Kt 4 

4 PwBs Beto Kt 4 

45 R to Kt2 R to K 6 ch 
Resigns. 

[The notes are by Mr. H. E. Bird.) 
(A) If Black had desired as 

second player to make the move 
most likely to lead to a draw he 
would probably have selected Q to 
K B38. 

(B) Whether judiciously or not, 
White captures the proffered King's 
Pawn. 

(C) A very sound move, we he- 
lieve, and an important part of 
the initiation of Black’s scheme of 
attack, 

(D) This Rook is destined to 
become a very useful officer in the 
attack. 

(BE) With a view to Bto KR &, 
which it is to White’s interest tv 
prevent. 

(F) A little examination will 
show that B to K B4 for White 
would lose a piece. 

(G) Correct play, we believe. 

(H) Had White played B to B 
sq, then B to K Kt 5 would have 
been almost decisive. 

(1) Threatening Rte BR 3, which 
would be fatal. 

(J) B to R6 again must be pro- 
vided for. 

(K) If B to K 4 then Black 
plays Rt. B, Pt. RL Rt. R, Rt. R, 
Bt. P ch, and B t, Kt, 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

198 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(L) Much better than taking the 
Pawn, 

(M) It is not often that the 
Captain makes so ill-judged a move 
as this. R to K B sq would have 
been much more to the purpose. 

(N) It was considered by the 
large concourse of visitors that 

Black had managed this somewhat 

adroitly ; his 3ist and su uent 
moves were well planned. There 
is now no satisfactory move for 
White. 

(O) Threatening mate in four 
moves. 

(P) White must prepare for his 
opponent’s contemplated move of 
E to B sq. 

— 

Gamo 140, played on the Sth of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING, 

White. Black. 
G,. H. Mackenzte. A, SELEMAS. 
1PtQB4 PtoK3 
2PtoK3 PtooK B4 
3 KttoQB3 KttoK B38 
4 KttoK B3 Bto K 2 
5 PtoQ4 P toQ Kt3 
6 Bto K 2 B to Q Kt 2 
7 Castles Castles 
8 PtoQKt3 (A) PtoK R3 
9 KttoK 5 Q to K sy 
10 BtoK B3 Bt. B 
11 Qt. B KttoQR3 
12 PteoQR3 PwQB3 
13 PtoK R3 PtoQ4 
14 QtoK 2 Kt toQ B2 
15 PtoK B4 KtoR2 
16 BtoQ2 BtoQ3 
17 Bto K sq R to Q B sq 
18 BtoK R4 Bt. Kt 
19 BPt.B Kt to Q 2 
20 Pt.QP BPtLF 
21QRtoQBsq Kt toQ Kt aq 
22 QtoQ3(B) QtQ2 
23 PtoK Kt4 PtoK Kt3 
24 Pt.P Kt Pt. P 
25 KtoR2 R to K Kt sq 
26 KttoK 2 Kt toQB3 
27 KttoK B4 Kt to K 2 
28 KttoR5 Kt to K sq (C) 
29 RtR Ktt. R 
30 R to Q B sy Kt to K 2 
31 PtoQR4 Kt to Kt 3 
32 Bto K Kt 3 QtoK B2 
88 Q to K 2 Kt to K 2 
34 BtoK R4 Kt to Kt 3 

White. Black. 
35 BtoK B6 Kt to K B sq 
36 QtoK B3 Kt to Q 2 
37 BtoK R4 Kt to K Kt 2 
38 KttoK B4 KttoK B sy 
39 RtoQ B6 Kt to Kt 3 
4) Kt t. Kt K t. Kt 
41 PtoQ Kt4 K toR2 
42 P to Kt 5 Ktto KR 4 
43 BtoK B2(D) Rto Kt2 
44 Rto Q Bsq R to Kt sq 
45 BtoK KR 4 R to Kt 2 
46 RtoK Bsq Q to Kt 3 
47 Bto B2 Q to B2 
48 R to Q B sq R to K Kt sq 
49 BtoR4 R to Kt 2 

(A) In this position Zukertort 
recommends 8 P to Q R 8 to con- 
fine the action of the K B; in 
these close openings time is not of 
much object. 

(B) These close games are often 
a mere trial of patience, each party 
keeping his position together and 
waiting for a possible opportunity. 
We must not too closely ask for the 
object of every move. 

(C) From this point Mr. Sell- 
man, by careful play, foils all 
White's attempts at attack. 

(D) All chance of attack is over, 
and each is content to do nothing 
if he suffers nothing. 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ws 

199 

MACKENZIE’S GAMES, 

Game 150, played on the 10th of May. 

SICILIAN. 

Black. 

White. 

Black. 

Ls: ~ ~ a co rw 
S gued¢ a Sess Gran tae sie g aF & 
wea TM Et TIS a.s AMANO ed MSM MOG aB SM we 
Bat MoMowold Skil Poo MEM ogoe Gu Sums om Se aan 
sot sstssstwtstsssdeSsstyssessysSetossissG*hsyss 
a clalaalalelele Mage RO Me eee Ay hd he 
a i> | o 
~ i> | 
= o as Fhe od : - > 
* td a Oo om a Sa oon a ne 
a) Resse te bd Pig oe OO Phebe en Teta Ti maat Ma Ma, 
e MORTON oo Soemtog BMS Kogook mt okmom8 Sum Og 
s ssu%sses 3e2e8e8 Sees sesusestessess23ee gu 
M meee ee el eee ee 
BS $SSSSR88 S8S55ESS SSSS BSSSSRHRLRAFKRERLLSS BS 
| 4 Ey =) = a ea oat 
ig Sr ~~ + +0 te o “avt £ ot aad. 
Ema 1 be Bw Dawes 24% Som emt dae g 2 Bet omg Si 5 
3 OM Sa SO SOM aM OOM om 31 oO On OM On SOOO gM 
Paka ee bid. Secabebep tue baetepe eter peteeebel obehebebob PoE: ba yee beh 
cg PAP A Pa Bd pg ©? i a Pi BP a Bil BB Bd Bi tt a a 0 
ot 2 
-_~ a _— 
= < = “1 z os 
ne gas # = 6 a eo wee) pide 
AA Mn BSc p, Ben cn F°S Saw cule AS oo ed po 8 8d 20 0 AL beeper. 
SH pt Some te Ce mMookd Homma SE OMB eu SG somone OCR OM Em 

— wa 

Saou SeaemomammymosoonMe ee eaeaneneankeumesaeaey 
N 

MWFNOGCKHOABASHNAMPWNORnDACHAND BOM HASHK NDF 2ON DAG AES 
SS SSS AR HH NNN CEN CEN GI OD 09 22 73 OD OD CO OD CO OD St 

4 ¥e 
e2fesketsussusssseagemisssscousseguiggsissee 
im 

La 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

200 LONDON CHESS 

White. Black. 
85 RtoB2ch(F) Kt. Kt 
86 RtoQsqech KtoK6 
87 Rto B83 ch KtoK?7 

88 R(Qsq)toQ Bsq P to Q 5 (G) 
And White draws by perpetual 
check. 

(A) White has opened the game 
with spirit. 

(B) Creating a block on the K’s 
side. For the next twenty moves 
the play is absolutely without pur- 
pose. White clearly wants a draw, 
and Black is waiting for a blunder. 

TOURNAMENT. 

(C) An object at last: threaten- 
ing the advance of the K P. 

(D) Preventing the Kt from 
coming to K 3. 

(E) Aftet twenty more moves of 
meaningless vacuity, we have again 
an object, intending to sacrifice his 
Kt P and Kt, and get a passed R P. 

(F) By sacrificing his Kt in re. 
turn, White insures the draw. 
Black is compelled to take the Kt, 
as taking P would lose. 

(G) If 88 ....P to K 6, K to 
Kt 2 equally forces the draw. 

Game 151, played on the 18th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
G. H. MAcKENZIE. A, SELLMAN 
1PtoK4 PtoK3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 KttoQB3 Kt to K B3 
4 Bto K Kt 5 Bto K 2 
5 Bt. Kt BtB 
6 KttoK B38 Castles 
7 QtoQ2 Kt toQB3 
8 Castles (A) PtoQR3 
9 PtcoKR4 P to Q Kt 4 
10 Pt.QP Pt.P 
ll QtoKB4 R to K sq 
12 BtoQ3 Kt to Q Kt 5 
13 Pt QR3 Kt t. B ch 
14 Rt. Kt PtoQB3 
15 Pto K Kt 4 BtoK 8 
16 Kt to Q s BtoK 2 
17 KttoK Kt5 BtoQ3 
18 QtoK B3 Qt QB2 
19 KttoK 3 PtoQR4 
20 KtoQsq(B) RtoQR2 
21 KttoK BS Bt. Kt 
22 QtB P to K Kt 3 
23 Qt. KB3 PtoK R3 

White. Black. 
24 KttoK R3 Q te Q sq 
25 KttoK B4 Bt. Kt 
26 Qt. B K to Kt 2 
27 Pto K Ktd PtoKR4 
28 Kto K 3 Rt.R 
29 Pt.R PtoK B4 
30 Q to K 5 ch K to B2 
3L K to Q2 R to Q: 
52 Rto K B sq RtoQ3 
33 Qto K Kt 3 RtoK 3 
34 PtoQ Kt4(C) PtoRS 

Drawn game. 
(A) An original way of opening 
a French Game, but the parti is not 
more lively than other forms of this 
dull début. 

(B) . strange-looking move, 
apparently to prevent B pinning 
the Kt at K 3. ; ° 

(C) Each side has produced a 
block. It would be difficult to 
exceed this game in portentous 
dulness, 

_SO 

nal tron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MACKENZIE’S GAMES, 

201 

Game 152, played on the 10th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. 
9 Ktt. P 
10 Qt. Kt 
11 PtP 
12 Qt. 

Such a game is a mere mockery 

of Chess. 

Rosenthal doubtless 

wanted rest,and Captain Mackenzie 
kindly met his wishes. 

Game 153, played on the 25th of May, 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
OG. H. Mackenztr. S. RosenrTHal. 
1PoQbB4 PtoK4 
2PtoK 3 KkttoK B38 
3 KttoQB3 Kt toQB3 
4 Ktto K B3 Bto Q Kt 5 
5 QtoB2 Bt. Kt 
6QtB PtoQs3 
7 PtQR3 Castles 
8 PtoQ4 Pi. 
White. Black. 
S. Rosenxtiar. G. H. Mackenzie, 
1PtK4 P to Q 4 (A) 
2P+t.P Qt. P 
3 4 KttoB3 Q to Q sq 
4PtoQ4 BtokK B4 
5 KttoB3 Pto K3 
6 BtoK 2 K KttoBs 
7 Castles Bto Qs 
8 Kt to Q Kt 5 Bto K 2 
9 BtooK B4 Kt to R 3 
10 PtoQR3 PtoB3 
11 KttoB3 Kt to B 2 
12 Rto Ksq Castles 
13 Kt to K R4(B) Bto Kt 3 
14 Ktt. B R Pt. Kt 
15 BtoQ3 Kt(B2)toQ4 
16 Kt t. Kt Kt t. Kt 
17 Bteo Kd Bto B3 
18 Q to Kt 4 Bt B 
19 Pt. B R to K sq 
20 QRtoQ sy Q to B2 
21 PtoK R4(!) KttoK2 
22 PtoR5 Pt FP 
23 Qt. RP P to K Kt 3 
24 QO toR6 Kt to B4 
25 Bt. Kt K Pt. B 
26 PtoK6 Q BR to Q sq 
7 RtR Q t. R (C) 

White. 
28 Pt. P ch 

29 Qto R7 ch 
30 Q to R 4 ch (D) 
31 Qto R7 ch 
32 QtoR4ch 
33 Q to B4ch 
34 Qto B3 ch 
35 Q to Kt 3 ech 

36 Rt R 

je) 

ie #) 

—_ 

al 

oo ef et 
Ye. Sa 
Smt 

5 

pt 

fe me 09 
ESEESS 
~~ 
— 
oF 
he 0 1 09 ae 

SARE 
LOWO TO 

Stsesssssrssss 
ef ca 

Lm 
2 

Pe 
HARA AS BOOeS 

er or 
caper a) B.S) BS) Se) er 
Ser IO Wows c 

om CORD 
° 

go 
WARS 

PRINCETON U 

a 
— 

or oO 

° 
Ff 

o.a oan o 

Be Se bl al 
Pit tt te te Se RO COR RRA AAR 

i— a 

Black. 

stent 

Séssssser 

mPok 
Mm Hrd ep Wop toc 

Sserey 
Ron R oe 
ye oe pe OED 

ako 

~~ 
a e & 
sssssgss 

- 
i 
baal 

rs 

sss 
Deana Aaa 

W cr oe Or 

= 
So 

nal fron 

NIVERSITY 

202 LONDON CHESS 

White Black 
56 Q to B7 ch KtoR5 
57 Qto K7 ch KtoR4 
58 PtoBd5 Pto BS 
59 Pto B6 Q to B 8 (F) 
60 Q to K 5ch K to Kt 3 
61 PtoB7 PtoB6 
62 QtoK 4ch K to Kt 4 
63 Qt. P ch K t. Q 
64 P queens ch K to Kt 4 
65 Q to Kt 8ch KtoB5 
66 Q to B7 ch K to Kt 5 
67 QtoKt7ch(G) KtoB4 
68 Pt. P Qt. P 
69 Qt. P Q to K 7 ch 
70 K to Ktsq K to Kt 5 
71 Q to Kt? ch Resigns. (H) 

(A) The worst form of close de- 
fence, as it loses two moves with 
the Queen without any equivalent. 

(B) Seeuring the exchange of 
the Kt for the Q B, and doubling 
a Pawn. 

(C) Taking with R seems safer. 

If then: 
28 Pt. P ch 
29 Q to Kt 5 

Qt. P 
R to K sq, 

with a certain draw. If: 

28 PtoK?7 

White. 

S. WINAWER. 

KOC MnO ok 

he 

R to K sq 

TOURNAMENT. 

20 Q to Kt 5 K to Kt 2, 
with the better game. 

(D) The checks that follow are 
quite useless, and White might at 
once have changed Rooks and taken 
the Q Kt P: see moves 36 and 37. 

(E) This and the following nine 
moves are quite purposeless, and 
White might as well at once have 
advanced his Q B P. 

(F) Pto K B6 secures the draw 
at once. If: 
Qt.Q 

60 Q to B5 ch 
61 Pt. Q P to BZ, 
and Black draws easily. 

(G@) Of course if White changes 
Queens and Pawns it is only a 
draw. 

(H) Captain Mackenzie had just 
received a telegram requesting him 
to meet a friend arriving by a train 
from Liverpool. He therefore re- 
signed the game prematurely. In 
spite of White’s two passed Pawns, 
it is impossible to prove a won 
game on analysis, as it seems hardly 
possible for White to advance his 
Pawns and avoid perpetual checks. 

Game 154, played on the 11th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
Black. White. Black. 

G. H. Mackenz1g, 12 Pt.P Bt P 
PtoK 4 13 BtoK3 P toQ Kt3 
KttoQB3 14 P to Q4(C) Bt. P 
PtoQR3 15 Bt. B Kt. B 
QPtB 16 PtoK5 Kt to Q 2 
B to Kt 5 17 Rt.P Kt t. P 
Bt. Kt 18 Rt.P RtoQ2 
Q to B 3 (B) 19 Rt. R Kt.R 
Kt t.Q 20 Rto K Bsq KtoK3 
BtoQ3 21 RtoB4 Kt to Kt 3 
PtoKR3 29 Rto Kt 4 Kto B4 
Castles Q K 23 Kt to K 2 PtoB4 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 
24 Kt to Kt 3 ch 
25 Kt to R 5 ch 

26 Rto K 4 
27 K to B2 
28 Rto K 2 
29 PtoK Kt4 
30 Kt to B 4 
31 K to Kt 3 
32 PtoK R4 
33 Pto Kt 5 
84 Pt.P 

35 Rto R2 
36 Kt, Kt 
37 KtoK 5 
38 Pt. P 

39 KtoQ4 
40 Rto K 2 
41 R to K@7 ch 
42 Rt. P 

438 PtoB4 
44 K to B3 
45 K to Kt 2 
46 RtoQ Kt7 
47 Rt. P 

48 Rt. P 

49 K to Kt 3 (H) 
50 Rto R 4 
51 Rto Kt 4 
52 KtoB3 
53 Rto B4 
54 RtoQ4 
55 K to B 4 
56 PtoB3 
57 K to Kt 4 
58 PtoBa 
59 K to Kt 5 
60 K to B6 
61 Rto Q7 ch 
62 PtoBd 
63 R to Q sq 
64 K to Kt 6 
65 PtoBé6 
66 Kto BZ 
67 RtoQ7 ch 
68 KtoQ5 

MACKENZIE’S GAMES, 

RaW RR 

wSSS Ses PS sS eS SSSS 
A BOO A ROO WO 
ot fw: eater o wo ge 
= a = 

S 

mo Zorn Ton 
HSE 

we oecan 

Sssss*sssrs 
oe 
to 
i= 
= 

+ 
2 
_ 
e 
ia 

xz 
=~ 
a 

Be En sf aoh- AB - Boh --8--h --8- 8 - Bk -s BohhB Bo hn ha 
a “Jor 

SSsssessssesssse 
RAD RRR eo 

o 
“I 
° 

oa 

203 

(A) No one but Winawer would 
make this exchange. From the 
very opening he plays wholly for 
the end-game, snd Mackensip helps 
him throughout to carry out his 
intention, 

(B) The more exchanges offered 
him the better Winawer is pleased. 

(C) Forcing more exchanges, and 
remaining probably with two Pawns 
to one on the King’s side, giving a 
possibility of advantage for the 
end-game. 

(D) Had Black changed Rooks 

it is difficult to imagine how he 
could have lost the game. 

E) An unnecessary venture, and 
which, in fact, leads to the loss of 
the game. 

(F) It: 

Yb Seer K to Kt 3 
41 RtoKS Rt.R 
42 KtR Kt.P 
43 K toQ5 KtoBs 

44 K to B 6, and wins. 
(G) 45.... Rio R5 would have 

at least drawn. If; 

45... K to Kt 3 
46 R to KR 8 R to Kt 7 
47 R to Kt 8 ch KtoR3 
48 K to K sq PtoBS5 
49 P to Kt 4 RtoR?7 
50 Rto R8 ch K to Kt 2 
51 R to BR 5, and draws. 

(H) Winawer has got his end- 
game, which he plays with his 
usual consummate skill. As the 
White R cuts off the K from 
fronting the P, it can be forced to 
queen. 

nal tron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

204 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 155, played on the 17th of May. 
KING’S GAMBIT REFUSED. 

White. Black. White, Black. 

J, Monrimes. G. Il, MACKENZIE. 46 RK to K B sq RtoQ3 
1PtoK 4 P to K 4 47 QtoK2 Q to Q 5 ch 
2PtcK B4(A) BtoB 4(B) 48 K to R sq K to Kt 2 

3 KttoK B38 Ptr. Q3 49 Rto K sq QtoB6 
4PtoQB3(C) KttoQBs 50 B to Kt sq Kt to Q2 

5 BtoBb4 Kt to B3 51 Qto Bsq Kt to K 4 

6 PtoQ3 B to Kt 3 52 R to B sq to K Kt 6 
7PtoQ Kt 4 B to Kt 5 53 Q to Q sq P to Kt 5 (!) 
8PtoQR4 PtoQkh4 54 QtoB2 R to Q2 

9 Pto Ktd Bt. Kt 55 Qto BS Kt to BG 
10 Qt. B Kt to K 2 56 Pt. Kt Qt. RP ch 
1 ag Pik 57 K to Kt sq PRE 

12 Bto Kt5 Q Kt to Kt sq 58 K to B2 Qto Kt 6 ch- 
13 QKttoQ2 PtoK R38 59 Kto K 3 Q to Kt 4 ch 
14 BtoR4(D) QtoK2 60 K to Q 4 (1) PtoB?7 

15 KttoBs Q to B4 61 BtoQ3 R to Kt 2 

16 RtoR2 Q to K 2 (E) 62 K to B4 QtoBS 

17 Kt to Kt 3 Castles 63 K to Kt 3 Pto RG 

18 KttoB5 Q to B sq 64 Q to B 6 ch K to R2 

19 BtoB2 Bt. Bch 65 PwQé Qi? 

20 Qt B PtoQ Kt 3 66 Qt. Q Pt. Q 

21 Castles PtwoR4 67 Rto K BR sq R to Kt 8 

22 Qw B3 K to Kt sy (F) 68 Rt. P PtoB8queens 
23 KtoRsy (G@) KttoQ2 69 Bt. Q Rt. B 

24 PtoQ4 Kt(Ktsq)toB3 70 Rto R7 ch K to Kt sy 
25 RtoQ Ktsq(?) PtoR5 71 KtoBd4 R to Q Kt 8 
26 BtoQs PtoKt4 72 Rto QZ? R to Kt 5 ch 
27 PtoB4d Kt to R4 73 K to Q 5 (!) Rt. Kt P ch 
28 QtoK 3 Kt to BS 74 K to B 6 (!) R to Q Kt5 
20 B to B sy Kt to K 3 75 Rt P Rtr 

30 Rto Q2 Pt FP 76Kt PY) (J) RtoQKtsch 
31 Ktt. P Kt t. Kt 7 Kt.P RtoK BS 
32 Rt. Kt Kt to B 4 78 K to Kt 6 K to B sy 
33 Rto Q56 Rt R 79 K to BG Rio B8 

34 BPt. R Q to K 2 80 RtoQ2 

35 BtoQ3 R to K sy Drawn game. 

36 oKs Qtok 4 

37 . " - a. of to Q oH) (A) The tedious close games, so 
38 Rto Q sq PtoK B3 fashionable in Tournament play, 
39 PtoR3 Q to Q 3 killed Mr. Mortimer, who rightly 
40 QtoB2 Ktto B4 went in for an open, lively game 
41 Q to BB QtoK 4 when the opportunity offered. 

42 K to Kt sq (?) Qto Kt7 (B) It is extraordinary that 
438 QtoR 5 R to Q sq Mackenzie should have refused the 
44 Qto K2 Kt t. R P gambit, when the theory of the 
45 Qto B2 Kt to B4 defence is proved to have the ad- 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

MACKENZIE’S GAMES. 205 

vantage in every form of the King’s 
Gambit. 

(C) This old form of the attack 
is now rarely played. The Kt is 
usually played to this square, as in 
the final game of the Steinitz 1, 
Blackburne match. 

(D) White has played the open- 
ing with excellent judgment. 

(E) Black has been losing moves. 

(F) Black is greatly cramped, 
and while his K remains at Q B he 
cannot move his K Kt without 
losing the K B P, and the Q would 
be lost by taking the B. This 
move is made to free the Kt. 

(GQ) Unnecessary. P to Q 4at 
once is better, If; 

23.3.. Pt. P (2) 
24 Ktt. P Kt to K 2 
25 PtoK 5 K Kt to Q 4 

26 B t. Kt, winning at least the 
exchange. In every case Black’s 
pieces are kept confined. 

(H) Black seems afraid of the 
advance of White’s K P. There 
is no reason against at once winning 
the Q RP. 

(1) If White had taken the P, 
R to Kt 2 would have won. 

(7) White has steered his way 
admirably through all his diffi- 
culties, and now forces the draw. 
This was the first game in the 
Tournament in which Mr. Mor- 
timer played up to his real force, 

Game 156, played on the 21st of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
G, H, Mackenzre. J. MORTIMER. 
1PtoQBe PtoKB4 
2 PtoK3 KttoK B38 
3 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 
4PtoQ4 PtoK3 
5 PtoQR3 Kt to K 2 
6 KttoQB3 PtoQB3 
7 BtoQ3 Kt to Kt 3 
8 Q to K 2(A) PtoQ4 
9 PtoBd Bto kK 2 
10 Pt QkKt4 Qt B: 
ll Pto Kt 3 P to K 4 (!) 
18 PtP Kt+. P 
138 Kt t. Kt Q t. Kt 
14 B to Kt 2 QtoB2 
15 QtoB2 P to K Kt 3 
16 Kt to K 2 R to B sq 
17 Kt toQ4 Kt to K 5 
18 PtoB3s Kt to Kt 4 
19 K to B2 BtoQ2 
20 P to K R4 (?) Kt to K 5ch(!) 
21 Bt. Kt (B) BPt..B 
22 PtoB4 BtoB3 

White. Black 
23 Kt to K 2 Castles 
24 Bt.B Rt.B 
25 KttoQ4 QRto K Bsq 
26 PtoR4 PtoK R38 
27 Pto Kt 5 P to Kt 4 
28 Pt.K KtP RPt.P 
39 Pt.P Bt.P 
30 Qto K2 Pt.P 
31 Kt Pt.P Qt K2 
82 QtoKt4ch Kto Kt sq 
33 KRtoQBsq Q to K sq (C) 
84 PtoR5 PtoR3 
35 RtoK Ktsq QtoK2 
36 QRtQBsq QtQB2(!) 
87 Kt to K 6 Qt RP (!) 
38 Kt t.R Rt. Kt (D) 
39 Q to Q sq Q to Q sq 
40 QtoR5 QtoB3 
41 K R to Q sq K to R sq (EF) 
42 Qto Kt 4 B to Q 2 (!) 
438 QtoKt2(F) RtoRsq 
44 Rte Q4(!)(G) RtoRG 
45 Q to Kt5 QtoRsq 

rege il rom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

206 LONDON CHESS 

White. Black. 
46 RtoK Ktsq RtoB6ch 
47 Kto K 2 B to Kt 4 ch 
48 K toQ2 Q to R 7 ch 
49 K to B sq K to R 2 (H) 
50 Q to Kt 2 Rto BS ch 
51 R to Q sq Rt. R ch 
52 Kt.R Qto K Rsq 
53 Q to Kt 7 QtoR4ch 
54 K toB QtoR7 
55 Q to K Kt2 QtoR2 
56 Q to Kt 2 QtoQB2 
57 Q to B 3 (I) Bto Bd 
58 Q to Q 4(J) QtoB3 
59 PtoBSd PtoR4 
60 R to Kt 6 Q to Kt 4 
61 P to B6 ch P to Kt 3 
62 QtoKt7ch Resigns. 

(A) The Q has no effect on this 
square. 8 Castles, followed by P 
to Q Kt 4 and B to Kt 2, are more 
aceording to the principles of this 
Opening. 

(B) Black is compelled to take 
the Kt, and on the blocking prin- 
ciple of which Captain Mackenzie 
is so fond he prefers taking with 
the B, and pushing his B P. 

(C) oe soe the advance of 
the Q R P, and thus further 
weakening White’s position. 

(D) Up to this bse Mr. Morti- 
mer has played admirably, and, as 

inted out by Baron Kolisch, he 
Rad here the game in his hands, 

TOURNAMENT. 

Instead of taking the Kt he should 
have played ; 

BB. sae Qto Q7 ch(') 

39 Qto K 2 Rt. P ch (!) 

40 Pt.R P to K 6 ch 

41 KtoB3 P to Q 5 dis. 
ch, and wins. 

If: 

41 K to B sq B to Kt 4 

42 Rto K sq B t.Q ch 

43 K to Kt 2 B to B 8 dis. 

ch, and wins. 

ee of interposing the Q, White 
play 39 K to Kt 3, Q t. P ch, 
rp ‘Kt 2 (best), and probably 
Black's best play is to take Kt with 
R, having two Pawns and a strong 
attack for the exchange given up. 

(E) K to R 2 were better. 

(F) Taking the B would clearly 
lose the game, as Black would drive 
the K to his own square, and by 
+ aying the R to one of the open 

es force mate, 

(G) Of course he cannot take Q 
P on account of Q to Kt 7 ch. 

(H) Were the K now at R 2 
Black could safely take the K P, 
with an excellent game. With the 
K at R sq, by doing so he would be 
mated in three moves. 

(1) 57 Q to Q 4 at once is better. 

(J) From this point Captain 
Mackenzie finishes off the game in 
good style. 

Sone 

Game 157, played on the 28th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White Black. 
A. SELLMAN G, H, Mackrnzta. 
1PtoK4 PtoQ4 
® PtP Qt. P 
3 QKttoBs Q to Q sq 
4PtoQ4 BtoK B4 
5 QtoK B3()(A) Q to B sq'(B) 

White. Black. 
6BtoKB4 PtoK3 
. ie SECT Bt. B 

8 Qt. KttoK B3 
a ete BS BtoQ3 
1” BtoK 5 Q Kt to Q2 
11 Castles Q R Pte QR3 

Jriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MACKENZIR’S GAMES, 207 

White. Black. 
12 KR to K sq Bto Kt 5 
13 PtoQs5 Ktt. B 
14 Rt. Kt Bt Q3 
15 K Rto K 2 Castles 
16 Pt.P Pt. P 
17 QRto K sq Q to Q 2 (D) 
18 Rt. P Q Rto K sq 
19 Rt. R (EB) Rt. R 
20 Rt R Qt. R 
21 QtoBdéch K to Bsq 
22 KtoQsq(F) Qto Kt3 
23 PtoK Kt3 QtoR4 
24 QtoK 2 B to Kt 5 
25 QtQ3 Bt. Kt 
26 Qt. B 

Drawn game. 

(A) A strong move, proving the 
— of Black’s irregular de- 
nce, 

(B) The only ror to avoid loss 
except retreating the Bishop home. 
(C) Kt to Q Kt 5, or Castling, 
followed by P to Q 5, would each 
give White an excellent game. 

(D) An attempt to defend the 
Pawn would be useless. 

505; R to K sq 
18 QtQB4 P toQ Kt 4 
19 Q to Kt 3 P to Kt 5 
20 Rt. P RtUR 

21 Rt.R 

(E) Mr. Sellman is too fond of 
exchanging. 19 Q toQB 4 would 
be somewhat better. 

(F) 22 PtoK Kt 3 seems better 
than this owiré move ; after which 
nothing can be made of the extra 
Pawn. 

Game 168, played on the 30th of May. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. \ 

White. Black. White. Black. 
G@. H. Mackenzrzr. A. Serumay, 23 PtoQB6 Kt to Q Kt sq 
1 KttoK B3 PtoQ4 24 Kt to K 5 Kt to Q 3 
2PwQ4 PtoK 3 25 Kt toQ 3 Pt. Kt P 
3 PtoK3 PtoQB4 26 Pt. Kt P,dis.ch Kt. P 
4 BtoKt 5ch (A) BtoQ2 27 KttoBich KtoKt3 
5 Bt. Bch Ktt.B ° 28 Pt. P K R to Q sq 
6 Castles K KttoK BS 29 KtoBsq(D) PtoK R38 
7PwoQkt3 Ft? 30 K to K 2 Pto K Kt3 
8 PtP Q to B2 31 RtoB3 PtoR4 
9PtQR4 R to B sq 32 PtoB4 R to K sq 
10 RtoR2 BtoQ3 33 K to Q3 K RB to Qsq 
11 Bt RS Kt to K 5 34 R (B sq) toB2 RtoK sq 
12 QtoQ3 B t, B (?) (B) 35 KR to Kt 3 K R to Q sq 
13 Kt t. B Q to BG 36 Kt to Kt sq KttoB5 
14 KttoQKt5 QtoR4(C) 37 Kt to B3 RtoQ3 
15 P to B 4 PtoQR3 38 RtoR2(E) KttoQ2(F) 
16 KttoQR3 QtoB6 39 Rto R 6 ch KtoB2 
17 Qt. Q Kt t.Q 40 Rto R7 ch K to Q sq 
18 RtoB2 Kt to K 5 41 KttoKt7ch KitoK 2 
19 PtoB5 K to Q sq (?) 42 Ktt. R K t. Kt 
20 KRtoQBsq K to B2(?) 43 Rto R6 ch Kt(Q2)to Kt8 
21 PtoQ Kt4 K to Kt sq (?) 44 Kt toQ R4 R to Q Kt sq 
22 Pto Kt5 KtoB2(? 45 Kt t, Kt Rt. Kt 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

208 

White. 

46 Rt. R ch 
47 RtoR3 
48 RtoB3 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Black. 

Ktt. R 
Kt to Q2 
Resigns. (G) 

(A) Zukertort, who has made a 
special study of this Opening, never 
makes this exchange, which is op- 
posed to its whole spirit, 

(B) Owing to White’s eccentric 
way of opening, Black has an excel- 
lent game, which he quite destroys 
by this and the following attempt 
to force exchanges. He should 
have Castled. 

(C) Changing Queens would have 
clearly lost the exchange. 

(D) By a series of weak moves 
Black has drifted into a position 
in whieh he can move nothing 
effectively, and White may gra- 
dually make his attack irresistible. 
Suppose ; 

os we Kt to B 5 (?), 
29 Kt t. Kt P +. Kt 

30 Rt. P Kt.P 

31 R(B4)oB2 RtP 

82 RtoKkt2ch RtoKt5 

33 Rt. Reh Kt.R 

34 Kt to Q 3 ch, and wins. 
Neither K, Q Kt, nor Q EK can be 

moved without immediate loss, nor 
the K Kt elsewhere than to K 5. 

(E) Threatening 39 R to R 8, 
and Kt to R 4 ch. 

(F) Bad as this is, there seems 
to be nothing better. 

(G) White will play R to QB 8, 
aud bring the King round to sup- 
port the passed Pawn, for which 
Black will have to sacrifice his Kt. 
From the 18th move, Captain Mac- 
kenzie has never relaxed his hold, 
and has shown how to make a 
minute advantage of position end 
in victory. 

Game 159, played on the 1st of June, 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. White. Black. 

Dr, Noa, G. H, Mackesxzrz. 19 Qt B R to K sq 
1PtoK4 PtoK 4 20 Kt to Q2 BtoQ2 
2K KttoB3 Q Kt to BS 21 K KR to K sq RtoKk 3 
3 Bto Kt 5 PtoQR3 22 Rt. R Bt. R 
4Btoh4 Kt to B3 23 Kt to B38 PtoR3 
5 Castles Kt t. P 24 R to K sq Rto B sq 
6 QtoK 2 Ktto B4 25 PtoK R3 Q to B 2 (D) 
7 Ktt. P(A) Kt to Q 5 (B) 26 Kt to K 5 PtoQ Kt3 
8 QtoB4 Kt(Q5)toK 3 27 Rt K3 PtoQB4 
9 Bto Kt3 Ktt. B 28 PtoK Kt 4 PtoBs 
10 Qt. Kt BtooB4 29 Kt toQ3 Q to Q2 
1l QtoK Kt3 Castles 30 RB to K sq PtB5 
12 Pt QB3 PtoQ3 31 Kt to B sq R to K sq 
13 Kt to Q 3(?(C) B to Kt 3 32 QtoQ2 PtoKR4 
14 Kt to B4 Kt t. Kt 33 Pto Bs PtP 
15 Qt. Kt PtoQ4 34 RPt. P K to B2 
16 PtoQ4 PtoQB3 35 QtoK B2 R to K Rsq 
17 Qto Kt 3 BtoB2 36 Q to Kt 3 Pto K Kkt4 
18 BtoB4 Bt B 37 RtoK 2 K to Kt 3 

inal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

a 
pd 
SSS, 
Fit bs 

9 eo 28 

vr cSiss 

ETT 
moo 

wns w 

AURA AR ARORA 
Ss 

SBYSRPSERSSSHRRE 

AR 
3 
w& 
> 

White. 
G, H. Mackenzre. 
1 KttoK B3 

ssasss 

2 
= 

QrwwoOWnd 
> 

& 
= 

SOO ROMO 
rs 

—_ 
SWANS oh cop 

— 
uw 

WOOK RORY od 
st o 
ia 

gr Ss 

bg Tero oO 
ky 

oo vy 

sos 

stsesr 
mi RO 

SSTSETSSES 
AnOTRD THO ROD 

oc 

WAATRON WORD VAR Ore 
2 0 

= 
° 
cr 

ag 
2 

MACKENZIF’S GAMES. 209 

White. Black. 

59 RPt.P Pt. P 
Draw after a few more moves. 

(A) It is usual to change the B 
for the Q Kt before making this 
capture ; the novelty does not seem 
advantageous, 

(B) Black at least avoids the 
doubled Pawn that usually attends 
this Opening. 

(C) 18 Kt to B 3 seems better. 

(D) Black is evidently playing 
for a draw; at this stage, with Kt 
against B, White had no reason to 
refuse the exchange and play for 
the end-game. 

(E) Determined to force the 
draw atonce. The position is such, 
after the exchange, that neither side 
can effect an entrance. 

Game 160, played on the 2nd of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
20 Kt to Q4 BtoQ4 
2l K R to K sq PtoQB4 
22 Kt to K 2 Kt to Q2 
23 KttoK Kt3 QtokKt4 
24 PtoK 4 BtoB3 
25 Rito K 3 P to Q Kt 3 

(?) (B) 

26 KttoK B5(!) Rto K 4(C) 
27 PtoK R4(!) QtoKB3(D) 
28 KttoR6ch KtoBaq 
29 Kt to Kt 4 Q to K3 
30 Ktt. R Kt t. Kt 
3L BtoQR2(') QtoQ3(E) 
32 BtoQ5 R to K sq (F) 
33 Bt. B Qt. B 
34 R to Q sq K to Kt sq 
35 RtoQd Kt to K Kt 5 
36 R(K3)toQ8 QtoB2 
87 PtoK Kt 3 Kt to K 4 
38 R to Q sq Kt to B3 
39 QtoB4 Q to Bsq 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

LONDON CHESS 

White. Black. 
40 K to Kt 2 Kt toQ5 
41 PtoB3 PtooKR4 
42 PtoQ Kt4 Ktto K 3 
43 Pt. P Ktt. P 
44 Rto Q6 K to Kt 2 
45 QtoQ4ch KtoR2 
46 QtoBé RtoK Ktsq(G) 
47 Qt. BP ch R to Kt 2 
48 QtoB6é QtoR3 
49 Q to Kt 2 Q to Kt 2 
50 R(Qsq) toQ5 QtoK2 
51 QtoQ4 R to B2 
52 RtoK 5 Resigns. 

(A) Dr, Noa’s opening is op- 
posed to the principle of this form 
of the close game, and though no 
great harm is done he is not well 

developed. 

White. 
§. RosenTHAt. 
1PtK 4 

to B3 

ote, 

ss 9 
© 
a 

ARGO 
aie oc 

aS 

a 
> 

esgesss 
HORS 
co 
0S 
> 

SAO UWHOKON DOW RR RO 
Cobo 

sssgsrrs 
On me tOy 
Zz” 

AMR SCCON ORO Dm ODO OSI Orb co DD 
BS 
eo 
a 

BD BS BD OD et tt te et et 

Rive 
= 
x 
ee 

Kt to B 3 

A 
wn 

TOURNAMENT. 

(B) Quite overlooking the object 
of White’s last move. 

(C) The only move to save the 
mate and prevent the loss of the 
exchange. The Kt clearly cannot 
be taken. 

(D) Losing the exchange, but 
Black has only a choice of diffi- 
culties: if 27....Qto B 5, 28 P 
to Kt 3 wins the Queen; if toR 
4 or Q sq, 28 P to B 4 wins the 
exchange. 

(E) Taking the B were better: 
| Qt. B 
32 Qt. Kt K to Kt sq. 

(F) If 32.... Bt. B, 33QR 
to Q sq (') 

(G) If 46 R to K Bsy, 47 R to 
to Q 8 wins. 

—+ oo —— 

Game 161, played on the 8th of June. 

SICILIAN. 
Black. White. Black. 
G. H. Mackexztr. = 2 R = Q Kt sq cee ck 
é t Pc ct ¢. 

hee tig 26 Kt to B5 Kt to Kt 5 ch 
Q Kt to B3 27 KtoK 2 PtoK 4 
PtP 28 Pt. P Kt t. P 
Kt to B3 29 KtoQ2 R to B sq 
PtcQ4 31 PtoB3 BtoBé 
Bto K2 32 Bt. B Rt B 
PtoK R3 33 P to Kt4(!)(D) Pt. P 
B to B sq (A) 35 K to Q sq RtoK2 é 
Q to K 2 (B) 36 RtoR8S8 R (B4) toB2 
Bto K Kt 2 388 RwQRS K to Q 3 (BE) 
Q to Kt 4 39 R to Q 8 ch K to B 2 (F) 
Qt. Q 40 RtoQRS K to Q3 
B to B sq Drawn game. 
Kt t. B (A) This retreat is necessary, 
PtoK R4 unless Black were prepared to play 
KRtoKtsq (C) the P to Kt 4 at once, which many 
Kt to Q 2 players would prefer. 
K to K2 (B) The object of this move is 
R to Kt sq not obvious, 

requir il rom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

211 

and is compelled to move 
Kt to Q2 
Rt. R 
K to B2 
K t. Kt 
Black. 

(E) Black cannot afford to lose 
White. 

(F) If: 

OP sc ot avd 
43 Rt. P at Kt 3, 

the Q RP, 

to and fro. 

40 Rt. Kt ch 
41 Rto K 6 ch 
42 Ktt. R 

MACKENZIF’A GAMES, 
Game 162, played on the 20th of June, 
RUY LOPEZ. 

Black. 

White. 

(D) Finely played. The sacrifice 
appears to insure the draw in every 

case. 

(C) Although Black has been 
tardy in his development, he has 

posted his Pawns in an almost im- 
pregnable position, and White has 
no prospects of breaking through. 

& Ee 
Fie Zomm Pat Fu lratatanta gem < ate 
MMOS OCMM HOMME A MOMM MMMM MOMOn mo R 5.5 
SSS@SSSSsFQssusSSSFVssEsssseVssseua ~F 
Add Ri mm OR MMM aide mmm | af 
3 3+ 
3 = S24: a ae 
Fone « SwnBonnSe ottonestouesns Swot zo & : 
MMMM Mem emmeema Oma Oe oM ae em Se 
SSSSESSSHSSSSSHSSLESSSSERIUEESSES = 
(0) 65 0 ly Fs Py 3 A Ay FO A Bt id Bad oy Bed bd ed Set et Bd te 43 
SRBSRSSSSSRASISISISSSSESSSSSSSSSSS 2B 
~~ oO a _ = 
oe lal bea wnt wae eS sta sot DS Fey aoe FA woe 
Bd Po Rog SR oS So Oh Oe Mie OM mM Mom 
g 28 o8sub8eegssusss3ssesu3ses2s2283 
Pegaso on Mammon mmm mem ate meat as en te 
ie oe Ri vos a & 
Eta otees make + 9 OSaamntd Biscre Powe 
gem ON Ma Me Suomot Odd Saw mM OkMooS 
SSPSSSHSSTBUS Sus scSFSSsessssssg233a 
by Pe COR AAR CPA CPA A A EA en Be On ee Od A bt Bt 
Ge ONO SAM NAM AMAT NARS 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

duces a perfectly satisfactory de- 
fence. 

(B) It is diffieult to find a good 
move here. This losesa Pawn, but 
leaves the draw a certainty. 

2 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

astounding blunder loses another 
Pawn and the game. 

(E) With a passed Pawn on each 
side of the Board White can afford 
to change Rooks. 

(F) If: 

(C) With Bishops of different EE K toB3 
colours and such a position the 47 BtoR 5 K to Kt 4 
extra Pawn is of no value. 48 Bto Kt 4 K to B 3 

49 KtoK 5 B to B sq 
(D) 24.... Rto K sq or K to 50 PtoK B5, followed by 51 P 
B2 made the draw certain. This to K R 3 and P to Kt 4. 
—o1rm 
Game 163, played on the 5th of June. 
SICILIAN. 
White Black. White. Black. 

H, E, Brap, G. H. Mackexztr, 81 BtoQ6é BtooR4 
1PtoK4 PtoQ B4 32 Qto Kt 2 P to Kt 3 
2 PtoQ Kt4(A) Pt. P 33 KttoK5(E) QtoQsq 
3 PtcQ4 PtoK3 34 Kt t. Kt Rt. K 
4BtoQ3 Kt to QB3 35 Bto K 5 P to Kt 4 

5 Ktto K 2 PtoQ4 36 RtoKt3ch BtoKt3 

6PtoK5 PtoK Kt 3 37 QtoK B2 KtoB2 

7PwQR38 B to Q 2 (B) 38 R to Kt 5 R to Kt sq 

8 Castles Kt toR 3 39 QtoR4 K to K sq 

9 Bw Q2 Kt to B4 40 Qto Kt 3 K to B 2 (F) 
10 Bt. Kt Kt Pt. B 41 QtoR4 K to K sq 
11 Pie Bt. P 42 Rto K 3 RtoK B2 
12 Pt QB3 B to K Bsq 43 Qto K sq (G) PtoR3 
13 Kt to Kt 3 B to Kt2 44 R(Kt 5) to Kt3 K to Q2 
14 KttoQR3 PtoQR3 45 B to Q 6 (!) Rto B3 
15 QtoR5 Castles 46 Bto B5 Q to Kt sq 
16 QtoR3 PtoB3 47 RtoK 5 Q to Kt 2 
17 KttoR5 R to B2 48 R(Kt3)toK3 BtoB2 
18 PtoK B4 Kt to K 2 49 QtoR4 R(B 3) to Kt3 
19 KttoQB2 B to Kt 4 50 Rto Kt 3 K to B sq 
20 R to B3(C) BtoK 7 51 Rt R Rt. R 
| at Bg Bt P 52 RtoK 3 B to K sq 
22 RtoK3 B to Kt 5 53 Q to K sq QtoK B2 
23 Qto Kt3 Kt to Kt 3 54 Rto K 2 BtoB3 
24 Ktt. Bch Qt. Kt 55 RtoR2(H) BtoKt2 
25 QR to Ksq(D) Q Rto K sq 56 QtoK 5 QtoQB2 
26 Kt to Kt4 QRtoK 2 57 Qto R8& ch Q to Q sq 
27 KttoQ3 R to Kt 2 58 Q to K 5 (1) QtoB2 
28 Qto B2 Kt to B sq 59 QtoK3 PtoQRe4 
29 Bto B sq Kt to Q2 60 P to Kt 3 
30 BtoR3 R to K sy Drawn game. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MACKENZIE'S GAMES. $13 

(The notes are by Mr. H. E. Bird. | 

(A) An experiment tried with 
singular successagainst Van't Kruys 
in Amsterdam in 1880, but some. 
what hazardous in a Tournament, 
and against a player of Mackenzie's 

reat powers. It, however, usually 
eads3 to most enterprising and cri- 
tical games. Tho present is no 
exception to the rule. 

(B) Had Black played P t. R P 
White would have replied with P 
to Q B 3, followed probably by Kt 
t. R P or Castles. - 

(C) Perhaps it would have been 
better to prevent this B reaching 
K 7. I regretted that I did not 
play Pt. BP. Black must have 
replied with Bt, P. White by 
then playing K R to K sq, attack- 
ing the K P, obtains a very com- 
manding position and in a few 
moves an attack of a very formid- 
able character. 

(D) The last few moves since 22 
have been exceedingly critical and 
interesting on both sides. White 
had several courses open to him, 
but the line of play selected appears 
goed, and with due skill in con- 

tinuation he has now a winning 
advantage in position. 

(E) Kt to Q Kt 4 at once would 

sound play, winning a centre 
Pawn. White commits the fault 
common to him throughout the 
Tournament of playing for too 
much instead of availing himself of 
the small but certain advantages 
offered. 

(F) Black has managed his de. 
fence capitally. Powerful as White's 
position has appeared, it does not 
appear that he could have done 
better since missing his oppor- 
tunity at 33. 

(G) In ordin lay I should 
probaly see at pee acd that P to 

Kt 4 would render this attack 

irresistible. 

43 Pto K Kt4 R (Kt sq) to 
K B sy 

44 QtoRG Q to K 2 

45 Pt. P RtP 

46 PtoK R4 

(H) B to Q 6 would have been 
nore to the purpose. 

(1) IE White now plays Q to K 
R 7, Black's reply of QtoK Kt 
sy would force a draw. 

Gume 164, played on the 9th of June, 

SICILIAN. 
White Black. White. Black 

G. H. Mackenziz. H. E. Binp. 12 PtooK R3 Bto K 3 
1PtoK4 PtoQB4 13 Kt to B sy R to B sq 
2 KktwQB3 KttoQBb3 14 PtoB4 Kt to K sy 
3 KttoK B38 P to K Kt3 15 Pto BS BtoQ2 
4PwQ4 PtP 16 BtoQ3 Pto K 3 

& Ket. P Bto Kt 2 iy Pt. EP KRPt. P 

6 BtoK 3 KttoB3 18 Kt(Bsq)toK2 QtoR4 

7 BtoK2 Castles 19 Kto B2 QtoK R4 
8 Castles PtcQ3 20 QRwKBrq PtoRS 

9 Qt Q2 BtoQ2 21 KttoB4é Q to K Req 
10 QR to Q sq QtR4 22 BtoK2 KttoK 4 
1l Kt to Kt 3 Q to Q sq 23 K to R sy Kt to B 5 (A) 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

214 LONDON CHEss TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
24 Bt. Kt Rt. B 
25 Pto K 5 BtoQB3 
26 QtoQ3 Rt.QKt(?)(B) 
27 Pt. R QPt. P 
28 Ktt. KKtP Pt. Kt 
29 Rt. Rch Bt. R 
30 Qt. KtPch QtoKt2(?)(C) 
31 Rt. Bch (!)(D) Kt. B 
32 Bto R6 K to Kt sq 
33 Bt Q Kt t. B 
34 K to Kt sq Resigns. 

[The notes are by Mr. H. E. Bird. } 

(A) P to Q Kt 4 would have 
been a very serviceable move for 
Black before moving Kt to B 5. 

(B) It is unaccountable that 
Black did not at once eive the 
necessity as well as advantage of 
taking the K Kt, which is ina 
threatening position, rather than 

ihe Q Kt, which is comparatively 
harmless. He would then have 
had an advantage in position more 
than equivalent to the sacrifice of 
the Rook for Bishop and Pawn. 
For example: 

26.... Rt. K Kt 
27 Bt. R Pt. P 

28 BtoQ2 KttoK B3 
29 K to Kt sq Kt to Q5 
30 Kt toK 4 PtoK B4 
31 Kt to Kt 5 R to K sq 

Black's pieces are excellently ar- 
ranged, and his Pawns are so 
strong that we incline to think 
that he has an advantageous 
position. 

(C) Even now, by interposing 
Bishop, Black might draw. 

(D) Mackenzie takes advantage 
of the opportunities offered in 
excellent style. 

—eoo— 

Game 165, played on the 11th of June. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
G. H. Mackenzie. J. Mortimer. 22 Pt. BP R to K sq 
1 PtoK 4 P to K 4 23 Pt. P t. P 
2KttoKB3 KttoQB3 24 Bto K 3 R to Q Kt sq 
3 Bto Kt5 PtoQR8 25 PtoR3 PtoRS 
4 BtoQR4 Kt to B3 26 QtoK B2 Q to Kt 6 
5 PtoQ4 Ktt.KP(?)(A) 27 BtoQ 4 PtoK6 
6 Castles Bto K 2 28 Bt. K P Qt. Kt P 
7 QtoK2 P to Q4 29QtoBrch KtoRsq 
8 Ktt.K P BtoQ2 30 Qt. BP R to K sq 
9 Bt. Kt Pt.B 31 BtoQBsq QtoQdch 
10 Rto K sq Castles (?) (B) 32 KtoRsq(?) QtoQBs 
11 PtoKB3 PtoKB4(C) 33 K to Kt sq Q to Q 5 ch 
12 Pt. Kt BPt.P 34 K toR 2 QtoBS5 
13 BtoK 3 BtoQ3 35 BtoQ Kt2(!) Rto K Kt sq 
14 Ktt. B Qt. Kt 36 R to BS (!) Resigns. 
+ ee sq “4 = Q . $ (A) Well known as disastrous. 
17 Rt. Reh BeR (B) Still worse, losing a piece; 
18 RtoKBsq BtoQ8 Kt to Q 3 seems necessary. 
19 PtoB4 B to Kt 5 (C) It is clear that if the Kt be 
20 PtooQR3 Bt. Kt moved White changes his Kt for 
21 Bt. B P to B4 (F) Q B, and wins the K B, 

| fron 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

White. 

G. Tl. MACKENZIE. 

cots 

players. 
of this move. 
Black a good game. 

bed fap tote pgp tad re 
Cw HEP SOVOnNanrtwnreovoOonacrrotry 

OOo ONDA RAR RP ROOOOORORS ER 

BO 0S bo bo 

Qrwe 

> 

oa ot + 

"ser 

ted 
-_ 

oD @Msaew 

Ss 
a 
to 

MACKENZIE’S GAMES, 

to 
—_— 
ft | 

Game 166, pluyed on the 15th of June. 

(A) Up to this point the game 
has been correctly opened by both 

I fail to see the purpose 
11 PoKB3 gives 

RUY LOPEZ. 
Black. (B) Black has played most care- 
S. WrIxawer. fully to this point, and avoided all 
PtoK 4 the latent dangers of the position. 
2 This is preferable to taking with 
Kt toQBs he Kt. “If: 
P to Q R83 the Kt. H 
Kt to Bs ee Kt t. Kt 
Pt. 26QwBsch QtoK Kt2 
B to K 2 27 QtoQKts PtoQKt4 
Kt to K 6 28 KttoB7ch Kto Kt sq 
Kt to B4 29 Kt to K 5 dis. ch, and wins at 
Mate B least uw Pawn, 
les 
K to RB sq (A) (C) 26.... R to K sq would 
_ KttoKk3 have forced the exchange of Rooks 
“4 bi -. a 3 with a perfeetly equal game. 
teed sq (D) Flurried by the difficulties 
Fo into which he has fallen, Black 
: 3 : makes a bad move. 
Kt to Kt 2 ee PtoKR3 
net 29 Kt to K 6 R to Kt sq, 
BtoB rig ae he apparently escapes all 
Rto K 2 anger. 
Rt. Rch : 
Q t. Kt (B) (E) White threatens fatal checks 
Q t. P (?)(C) at K B7 and Q B 4; the move 
Qt. P made guards against both, but 
K to Kt sq (7) opens other perils. If: 
( 
t. PO@Y(E 29.0. R to K B sq 
+ Sarbathy GY 30 Q to B 4 ch K to R sq 
31 KttoB7ech~ Rt. Kt 
32 Qt R PtoK R4 

33 Rt. Q Kt P, and wins. 

(F) If the Kt moves, Rt. RP, 
and mates at K 8. 

ir il ron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

2 Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

SECTION VII. 

MASON’S GAMES. 

THE NOTES TO THE GAMES IN THIS SECTION ARE BY J. MASON. 

val fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Sa , Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

SPSRSSSS HE 

gROOe a 

KS otto ~ & 
Peabo 

5 

ARROW TERS 
RO 
“os 

le eee aS hare Se) 
co 
a 
s] 
e*) 
a 
=] 

ba fed pet ———s— se 
cmos 
APO WN RASA WO 

Fi 
ro 

Fee 
°o 

pd 

aw 

> 
S 

sSssssss 
Bp OR ROO wR 
en > r=) 

S 
QAR Ss 
HS s 
5 Ok 
— 

oo 
5 8S 
2] 
sé 
=~ =] 
te 

38 QtoR2 

39 Ktfr.B 3 toQs 

40 QtoR6 

s 
ie] 
ve) 

a 
~~ 

oa ao 
= 
Ss 
OQAw 
Or em oo 
o 
He 

MASON’S GAMES. 

——— 

Game 167, played on the 26th of April. 

oe 
or 
3 
— 

seers 
so tone 
& 

os 
° 
OCnA mR aR rOR Me 
cc of co 
= or co 

SsSssss 

OWN ROOK AER VONR UYU POVOR WOON URE 
ssssssers 
Pe oe py OS 
Lasse D 
= A 
ad 

Sstcecxs 
ROROOsSH On 

GIUOCO PIANO. 
Black. White. Black. 

G. H. Mackenztx. 4] Ktteo BS Rfr. B2toQ2 
Ptok4 42 Qto B6 B to Q Kt 3 
Kt toQB3 43 Rto R6 R to Kt sq (O) 
BtoBs 44 Ktfr.Q5 toK 3 Rir.Q 2 toQsy 
KttoK B3 45 Q to Q5 t. Q 
PtoQ3 46 Kt t.Q Bto K B2 
Bto Kt 8 47 Kt toB 6 ch K to R sq 
Bto K3 48 Kitt. Kt P Btw K 38 
Castles (A) 49 Ktfr.Kt4toK3 K to R2 
P+~B- 50 Pto kt 4 B to B sq 

to K sq 51 Rto R sq B t. Kt 
to Kt sq 52 K Pt. B Resigns. (P) 
R3 

(A) A questionable manauvre, 
as in games of this character the 
player who Castles first usually gets 
the worst of it. In all likelihood 
B to Q 2 would have turned ont a 
better move. 

(B) White's object in pinning the 
Knight was to preserve his Bishop 
and eventually post it at Q B 2; 
but, upon his adversary’s Castling, 
he changed his plans for the sake 
of doubling the Black Pawns and 
remaining with two Knights against 
two Bishops in the ending. 

(C) Perhaps Q to B 2 immediately 
was stronger, 

(D) P to Kt 4 would have been 
dangerous play. 

(E) See note (B). Black cannot 
exchange either of his minor pieces 
for one of his opponent's without 
disadvantage to himself; and the 
difficulty of exchanging both is ob- 
vious. 

(F) With the idea of playing Kt 
to R 4, and then Kt to B 5, later 

i 1 ro;nry 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

220 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

vn—an idea Le could not well carry 
out were his K Kt P undefended. 
Otherwise, the King’s move appears 
of indifferent sort, and might have 
been postponed if not altogether 
omitted, 

(G) Partly a “ waiting” move and 
partly to make way for his Rook 
should it be required at K Kt sq. 

(H) This may be somewhat 
against “the Principles,” but it 
has the merit of being in agree- 
ment with the actual requirements 
of the situation. 

(1) A formidable advance which, 
for the moment at least, compels 
the first player to act more or less 
on the defensive. 

(J) Pt. P would have been bad 
play. 

(K) As the subsequent course of 
the game shows, this was an error. 

(L) Of course, B t. P was out of 
the question; but it seems B to K 
B 2 was fur superior to this retreat 
of the Queen. 

(M) He was threatened with the 
loss of a piece through 32 Kt t. b, 
33 Q to R 7 ch, &. The error 
committed at move 25 is now evi- 
dent. 

(N) From this point White has 
the game in his hands. Whether 
Black takes or pushes on, in answer 
to this move, White’s Knight must 
reach the open square at Bishop‘s 
fifth, thus rendering the position of 
Black all but untenable. 

(O) White’s Queen is now in 
some danger. 

(P) Black gave up rather than 
prolong a contest which, on the 
merits of the case, should be against 
him in the end. 

(Mr. Mason writes with modesty 
as to the state of bis game. The 
P at B 6 must fall at once when 
attacked by the K R, and Black 
cannot advance any of his Pawns 
without increased loss of material. 
—Eprror.} 

++ 

Game 168, played on the 27th of April. 

GIUOCO PLANO. 

White Black. White. Black. 

J. Masox A. B, Skipworru. 4 9 to Q . ©) 2 
1PwK4 P to K 4 to to 
2KKttoB3 KttoQB3 19 KttoR 4 gh a 
3 BtoB4 B to B 4 20 Bt B lh 
4 PtQ3 P to Q3 21 Q to K 2(D) gt 
5 BtoK3 B to Kt 3 a2 BtR Se ie 
6 QKtt.QZ2 KttoKB3 aon ha 
7PtQB3 B to Q 2(A) rep ee ae , 

8 Bto Kt 3 QtoK 2 25 PtoQ Qt Qs 

9 QtoK2 PtoKR3 26 Qto Bs Qtok 3 
10 KttoBsq BtoK3 87 QtoK sé eee 
11 BtoR4 BtoQ2 28 Ktfr. R4toBi(F) Pt. t(7) (G) 
12 Kt to Kt 3 PtoK Kt3(B) 29 Kt t. P er ihe 
13 BtoB? P ta Q 4 

4 aah KR P oe 30 Q to Kt 3 Resigns. 

15 Pt. P Kt to Q sq (A) This aepoete to be fully as 
16 QRtoQ sy K to B sq good as B to K 3. 

r 3 rn 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MASON’S GAMES. 221 

(B) So far, Black's principal 
concern seems to have been the 
avoidance of any such class of posi- 
tions as arose in the “ Giuoco” con- 
tested on the previous day between 
Messrs. Mackenzie and Mason. 

(C) A lost move; but somehow 
or other White has drifted into a 
emgage not at all favourable to 

im as the attacking player. 

(D) White is now virtually on 
the defensive, and, had Mr, Skip- 
worth played on consistently to the 
end, the result should certainly not 
have been in Mr. Mason's favour. 

(E) A safer square for the King 
than Kt 2. It is scarcely necessary 

to say why B t. B would have been 
extremely bad play. 

(F) On the chance of Black’s 
capturing the Knight. 

(G) Either Kt to K Kt sq, or 
P to K Kt 4, should have been 
played instead. After the text 
move Black’s chance of winning 
disappears. 

(H) Fatal. The correct move 
was Kt to K sq, upon which White, 
in all probability, would have been 
forced to content himself with the 
draw by perpetual check—30 Q t. 
P ch, K to Kt sq, 31 Q to Kt 5 ch, 
&c. Mr. Skipworth entirely over- 
looked the effect of White’s next 
move, 30 Q to Kt 3. 

Game 169, played on the 1st of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White Black. 

J. Mason Dr. Noa, 
1PtK38 P to K 3 
2 PtoK Kt 3(A) KttoK B3 
3 PtoQ4 PtoQRB4 
4 Bto Kt2 KttoQB3 
5 KttoK B3 PtoQ4 
6 Pto Kt8 Bto K 2 
7 Bto Kt 2 Castles 
8 Pt. P Bt. P 
9 Castles B to K 2 
10 Q Kt to Q 2(B) PtoQ Kt3 
1l Rto K sq B to Kt 2 
12 PtoQR3(C) RtoQ Bagq 
13 RtoQB sq R to B2 (D) 
14 Bto B sq Kt to K sq 
15 B to Q 3 (E) BtoB3 
16 Kt toQ4 Kt to K 4 (F) 
17 BtoB sq Kt to Q3 
18 PteoQR4(G) Pt QR3 
19 PtoK B4 KttoB3 
20 Ktfr.Q2toB3 QtoQ2 
21 BWQR38 K RtoQ Bsq 

(H) 

22 BtoQ3 R to K sq 

White. Black. 
23 Kt t. Kt (1) Qt. Kt 
24 Bt. Kt Qt. B 
25 Qto K 2 P to K 4(J) 
26 Pt. P (K) Bt. P 
27 KttoR4 P to Kt 3 
28 Bt. RP BtoB6 
29 K R to Q sq BtoQ Rsq(L) 
30 Kt to Kt 2 Pt. Q5 
31 BtoQ3(M) Rfr.B2toK2 
32 BtoB4 Rt. P(!) (N) 
33 Ktt. R Rt. Kt 
34 Qt. R QwoQB3 
35 Bt. Pch(!)(O) Kt. B 
36 Q to B2ch K to Kt sq (P) 
37 K to B sq QtoR8ch 
38 K to K 2 Q to K 5 ch 
39 K to B sq BtoQ Kt 2 
40 RtQ3(Q) BtR3 
41 QR to Q sq Q to R8 ch 
42 KtoK2 Qto K 5ch 
43 K to B sq QtoR8ch 

Drawn game. 

(A) Seldom adopted, and per- 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

922 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

haps, on the whole, not commend. 
able. 

(B) Kt to B 3, though it has its 
drawbacks, seems preferable to 
this, as it is with great difficulty 
the Knight can be brought into ac. 
tive service from the post where he 
now stands. 

(C) Unnecessary. The opening of 
this game is not well played by 
White. 

(D) Preparing to double his 
Rooks on the Q B file. 

(E) That this maneeuvre should 
be considered necessary by White 
is sufficient to show the inutility of 
his second and fourth moves, or, in 
other words, of his whole scheme 
of development on the King’s side 
of the board. Black’s game is in 
every way to be preferred. 

(F) Kt t. Kt or B t. Kt would 
have freed White from his per- 
plexities. 

(G) Tn order to play Kt to Kt 5, 
which, as matters stood, could not 
be done without loss—e.g.: 18 Kt to 
Kt 5, Kt t. Kt, 19 Bt. Kt, Kt to 
B 6 ch, 20 Kt t. Kt, B t. B, and 
wins at least a Pawn. 

(H) The complement to move 
13; but White's answer leads him 
to change his plans, as the doubled 
Rooks can effect little or nothing, 
while the opposing Bishop stands 
at Q 3 with the Q B P unmoved. 

(1) Not good; but he was appre- 
hensive of the threatened advance 
of the Black K P, and thought it 
as well to exchange voluntarily as 
to be in a measure forced into it. 

(J) Black’s attack is now become 
very strong. 

(K) It might have been better 
for White had he omitted this move 
und taken the Q R P immediately. 
Suppose: 26 B t. Q RP, P t. P. 
27 Bt. B, Rt. K P, 28 Q to Q 2, 
and, though the situation is criti- 
cal, it is so for both parties, White 
having as little to fear as his adver- 
sary. 

(L) This Bishop promising to 
exert a powerful influence on affairs 
as soon as Black can push the 
Queen’s Pawn on, he is naturally 
loath to part with it, even for the 
sake of at once regaining the Pawn 
which he is now to the bad.. 

(M) B to B 4 was better. 

(N) Perfectly sound and good 
lay. The position is peculiar, and 
rves attentive examination. 

(O) The only move; on the 
other hand, Black is obliged to take 
the Bishop. 

(P) Had White checked with 
Rook, this move of the King would 
have left him without resource. 

(Q) 40 R to K sq, Q to R8 ch, 
41 Q to Kt sq, QtoB6 ch, &c., 
for White cannot venture out with 
his King, e.g.: 40 R to K sq, Q to 
R 8 ch, 41 toK 2, QtoR Sch, 
42 K to Q sq, Q to Kt 5 ch, 43 RK 
toK 2, BtoB6, 44 P to R 3, or 
R to Kt sq, Q to K 5, followed by 
Bt. Rand Q to R 8 ch, winning. 
As it is, Black can do no better 
than give perpetual check, and so 
the game was drawn. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

1PtK4 

~~ 
S 
© 
- 

Aw 
5s * 
oF 
oo 

SPE EgreEre nee Esene 
Dae M Re e ROOWm 2 
a @ @ 
2 — a) Ral [Je] 

Or ON RK SVC ONAMEWONMKSCUOUOMN So oD 
Ss! 

BS BS BD ND ND OND et et et et et et 
WHWHAA RRO HOCROR TR 

s 

Sado al 
a aed 3 
Gx 
~~ = 

MASON’S GAMES. 223 

Game 170, played on the 2nd of May. 
FRENCH GAME, 

KttoK B3 

Cana 

Bsc 

= HOOF 
hwo 
ial] 

cat 
ao 

Bi oe Sb 
ed 
o a 

© 7 
— oo 
ner 

Ast srerss 
ofS 
Mas rEo 

or 

nada RODOW TORR 
ARG RR 

esters 

fal 

Kt to 

(A) What to do with this Bishop 

is generally a very pressing ques- 
tion for the second player in the 
“French.” As posted in the pre. 
sent instance, he exercises no par- 
ticular influence on the game, and 
is in danger of being attacked and 
driven back by White’s K B P; 
and if played to Knight’s fifth, he 
must, in course of time, either 
retreat or take the Knight, and so 
open up an important line of attack 
upon his own King. 

(B) This, together with the 
moves immediately preceding and 
following, is not in furtherance of 
White's prospects—if he plays to 
win, 

(C) If B t. P ch, Black simply 
takes the Bishop with Knight. 

(D) Playing for the draw; but, 
as a matter of fact, coming off with 
slightly the better game. 

(E) Here Black might have gone 
in to win by playing this Pawn two 
squares instead of one; but the 
process would have been long, te- 
dious, and difficult, even if possible. 

Game 171, played on the Sth of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

Black. 
Da, Noa. 
PtoK 3 
PtoQ4 
Pte 
BtoQ3 
Kt to K B3 
Castles 

PtoQB3(A) BtoK Kt5 

White. Black. 
8BtoKKt5 QKtt.Q2 
9 Q Kt toQ2 PtQB3 
10 Qto B2 Q to B2 
1K RtoKsqg KRtoKsq(B) 
12 BtoR4 PtoK R3 
13 Bto Kt 3 Bt. B 
144 RPt.B(C) Rt. Reh 
15 Rt R to K sq 

Inginal trom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

224 

White. 

16 Rt. Reb 
17 KttoR4 
18 Kt to Bsq 
19 KttoK 3 

22 QtoK2 

Se 
AO 
& 

Sessss 
SAR AROS 

7 

enk 
soa 
mAS A 
tw 

= s 
oon 
ba] oof 

NISRA EPONKOWON AS 
ot 

ee el oe 
eoRecBa-he-]--ha-ha-B-xt ate) 
es s.F 

Awe 

mw 

bed 
er 
wo 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Black. 

Kt t. R (D) 
Q to Q 3 

K to B sq 

SST ce SSSSS 

oO Ses IR RO 

c er Kee ro Fa? 
a) SS © 

WAAR VOR RRO TR TO 
es 
a 

A 
Se 
be 

t2toB4 

(A) The customary 7 Kt to B 3 
is, no doubt, to be preferred here. 

(B) Here the positions are ex- 
actly similar, and, as frequently 
happens, the player having the 
move finds himsclf at a loss what 
to do with it. 

(C) Although taking with the 
other Pawn would open the Bishop’s 
file, it would, on the other hand, so 
very seriously lessen his control 
over the two important squares, 
King’s third and fourth, “that it 
was judged best to take as in the 
text. 

(D) This sudden flight of Rooks 
augurs ill, so far as any decisive 
result is concerned; and the sub- 
sequent play, on both sides, clearly 
tends in the like direction, 

(E) This looks as if something 
were about to happen, but it turns 
out to be nothing. 

Game 172, played on the 4th of May. 

SICILIAN. 

Black. White. Black. 
H, E. Brro. 18 PtoK B4 PtoB3 
PtoQB4 19 QtoR5 Q to K B2 
PtoK3 20 K R to K sq K R to K sq 
Kt to K 2(A) 21 Kt to Bsq Kt to K 2 
Pt.P 22 Qt. Qch K t. Q(D 
Kt to Kt3 23 Kt to K 3 Q Rto Q sy 
KttoB3 24 QRoQs B to B2 
Bto K 2 25 K to Kt sq P to K R 4 
Castles 26 KtoB2 P to QKt 3(E) 
BtoKt5 27 PtoK R4 P to K Kt4(?) 
P to Q 4(C) 2®RPtLP(F) PtP 
BtoQ3 29 Pt. P P to Kt 4 (G) 
Pt. P 30 BtoB3 K to Kt 3 
Kt t. Kt 31 RtoK Raq Kt. P 
QtoB2 32 Rt. P ch K to Kt 3 
BtoQ2 33 RB fr. Q sq to Kt to Kt sq 
Bt BS K Raq 
PtQR3 34 RtoR7 Rto K 2 

PRINCETON UNIVE ASIT if 

MASON’S GAMES, 225 

White. Black. 
35 R fr. R sq toR Ktt.R 

6 ch (!) (H) 
36 Rt R B t. P ch (1) 
37 Kt. B R to K Kt sq 
38 KtoR4 Kt to B4 ch 
39 Kt t. Kt K t. Kt 
40 RtoB7 ch KtoK 3 
41 RtoB6 ch K toQ2 
42 Bto Kt 4ch K to B2 
43 BR to B7 ch K to Kt sq 
44 RtoK R7 R to Kt 3 
45 RtoR8ch K to Kt 2 
46 Pto Kt4 K to B2 
47 Bto K 5 ch K to Kt 2 
48 KtoR5 Resigns 

(A) The ordinary move, 3 Kt to 
Q B 3, seems preferable. 

(B) There was no necessity for 
this; 9 P to K B 4 might have 
been played without danger. 

(C) Hereabouts the contest as- 
sumes a rather animated character, 
and for the next score of moves or 

so is very evenly carried on by both 
parties. 

(D) With the disappearance of 
the Queens the slight weakness 
Black suffers from, in the isolation 
of his centre Pawn, is somewhat 
increased. 

(E) Having got his K at B 2, 
in defence of his Rook, White was 
in a position to play B to B 5, 
Mars a the Black Pawn must 
have fallen. 

(F) Black's last move, P to K 
Kt 4, was ill-considered, and 
White's superiority is now pal- 
pable. 

(GQ) Doubtless with the object of 
pinning the Knight, should his op. 
ponent play 30 B to B 6. 

(H) Perhaps the simplest way 
to bring the game to an end. 

(1) As he was under mate, the 
piece could not be saved, The re- 
maining play requires no comment. 

Game 173, played on the 7th of May. 
ENGLISH OPENING. 

White Black. 

J. Mason. A, SELLMAN, 
1PtQB4 PtQB4 
2PtoK3 PtoK 3 
3 KttoK B3 PwQ4 
4PtcQ4 Ktto K B8 
5 KttoB3 Kt to B3 
6 Pt. QP K Kt t. P (A) 
7 Bto Kt 5 Kt t. Kt 
8 Pt. Kt Bto Q2 
9 Castles BtoK 2 
10 BtoQ2(B) Castles 
ll QtoK 2 QtoB2 
12 BtoQ3 PtoQ R3(C) 
13 KRtoBsq KRto Bsq 
14 Kt to K sq P to Q Kt4 
15 PtoK B4(D) P to K Kt3 
16 KttoB3 PtoB5 
17 BtoK 4 PtoK B4(£) 

White. Black. 
18 BtoB2 Bto R6 
19 KRtoKtsq KttoQsq 
20 Kt to K 5 BtoKs 
21 Pto K 4(F) Kt to B2 
22 PtP Kt t. Kt 
23 BPt. Kt Kt Pt. P 
24 Rto K Bsy R to R2 
25 Rt B3 QtoB3 
26 BtoR 6 B to Kt 3 
27 QRtoK Bsq BtoB sq 
23 BtoK 3 R to Q Kt 2 
29 PtooK R4 K to R sq 
30 Rto Kt 3 Q to K sq 
31 Bto Q sq PtoK R4(G) 
32 QtoB3 Rto Q2 
33 Qt B4 R(B sq) to B2 
34 Q to Kt 5 KtoR2(?)(H) 
35 Bt.R P Bto B2 
Q 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

226 LONDON CHESS 

White. Black. 
36 B to Q sq PtoR4 
37 BtoQ B2 Q to K 2 
38 Bt.Pech(!)(1) Pt. B 
39 Qt. P ch K to R sq 
40 Bto Kt 5 Resigns. 

(A) As is become the usage of 
late, Black takes the Pawn with 
Knight in order to avoid the iso- 
lation of his own Queen’s Pawn. 

(B) Rather than B to Kt 2, 

rtly on account of the answer, 

to Kt 3, forcing the exchange of 
one of the Bishops. 

(C) Preparatory to the advance 
of the Knight’s Pawn. Black's 
position on the Queen's side is 
stronger than that of his opponent. 

(D) With a view to organising 
an attack on the King, as an offset 

TOURNAMENT. 

to the disadvantage he labours 
under on the other side of the 
board. 

(E) Injudicious, as it not only 
materially weakens his guard over 
King's fourth and Knight’s fourth, 
but in other ways falls in with 
White’s designs. Q R to Kt sq 
seems a much better move. 

(F) See above. Whether Black 
takes this Pawn or not, it is clear 
that White’s game has undergone 
i somewhat sudden improvement. 

(G) Fearing the advance of the 
opposing Rook's Pawn. 

(H) Ablunder. Rto K Kt 2 
was the correct play. 

(1) After this White must win 
with ease, whatever Black may do. 

Game 174, played on the 8th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
8, RosexTHar. J. Masox 
1Pt.K 4 P to K 3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 Pt. P PLE... 
4KttoK B3 BtoQ3 
5 Bo Q3 KttoK B3 
6 Castles Castles 
7 KttoB3 PtoB3 
8 Kt to K 2 Bto K Kt 5 
9 Kt to Kt3 QKttoQ2 (A) 
10 PtoK R3 Bto K 8 
ll KttoKt5(B) PtoK R38 
12 Ktt. B Pt. Kt 
18 PtooK B4 R to K sq 
14 PtoB3 Q to B2 
15 QtoB3 R to K 2 
16 BtoQ2 PtoB4 
17 Pt. P Ktt. P 
18 PtoKt4(C) Ktt.B 
19 Qt. Kt RtoQBsq 
20 QRto K sq Q to B 3 (D) 
21 RtoK 2 Q to K sy 

White. Black 
22 K Rto K sq Rto Bd 
23 QtoB3 QtoB2 
24 KtoRsq(E) KtoRsq 
25 PtoR3 PtoQ Kt4 
26 Rto K B sq PtoKR4 
27 R(K2)toK sq PtoRS 
28 Kt to K 2 Kt to K 5 
29 R to Q sq QtoB4 
30 B to K sq RtoK B2 
31 Rt Q4(F) BtoK2 
32 Rt. KR Kt Pt.R 
33 KttoQ4 Q to Kt 3 
34 PtoR4 P to K 4(G) 
35 PtoBd QtoK R38 
36 Kt to K 6 P to Kt 3 
37 Q to Q sq PtoQ5 
38 QBPt. P RiP 
39 Rt. R Pt Rk 
40 KttoB5(H) Bt. Kt (1) 
41QPt.B PtoB6 
42 Q to Q 8 ch K to Kt 2 
43 QtoK 7 ch K to Kt 3 

nal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MASON’S GAMES. 227 

White. Black. 
44 Qto K 8 ech K to Kt 4 
45 Qt. P QtoK B3 
46 QtoQs K to Kt 3 
47 QtoKt8ch KtoR3 
eee Qt B 
49 Qto BBc K to Kt 4 
50 Q to K 7 ch K to R4 
51 Qto R7 ch K to Kt 4 

Drawn game. 

(A) Apparently inferior to 9.... 
Q to B 2, stopping White from im- 
mediately attacking the Bishop as 
in the text. 

(B) The object of this is some- 
what dubious. Black's Bishop is 
not well placed, and its exchange 
for the Knight is no injury to him, 
notwithstanding the resulting weak 
Pawn at K 3. 

(C) This unsatisfactory-looking 
move was not made without due 
consideration ; and that Mr, Rosen- 
thal found it necessary suggests a 
fault somewhere, which even thus 
early in the game had cost him at 
least whatever advantage he had in 
beginning it. However, it looks as 
if 18 K to R sq might have been 
played instead, and the advance of 
the Pawn delayed until absolutely 
forced. It may be added that 
Black threatened 18 ....Q to Kt 3. 

(D) In order to be able to defend 
the King’s Pawn, which must soon 
be strongly attacked, and at the 
same time keep control of the 
Bishop's file with the Rook. 

(E) A “waiting” move as much 
as anything; and so of Black's 
reply, only it turns out to be a 
very bad one. 

(F) Nothing would be gained 
by 31 B t. P on account of tho 
answer, 31 .... Kt t. P, 32 Kt t. 
Kt, Q Rt. K B P(!) 

(G) From this point onward the 
contest is no less interesting than 
difficult, and it is not easy to see 
where either player could have 
sensibly bettered his play. 

(H) Better, no doubt, than 40 
P to Q 5. 

(1) Were it not for the unfor- 
tunate position of Black’s King, he 
would stand a very good chance of 
winning now through 40,.... Pt. P; 
but as it is the capture of the 
Knight is almost obligatory. 

(J) White plays for the draw, 
and although Black might have 
avoided it by playing on the Q BP, 
the result would in all probability 
have been the same, though by 
strict analysis it may be shown 
that the latter should win, 

Gawe 175, played on the Oth of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White Black. 

J. Mason. S. Rosexrnat. 
1PtcK3 PtoK 4 
2PtcQB4 KttoKk B3 
3 KttoQB3 PtoQ4 
4Pt.P Kt t. P 
5 KttoB3 Kt t. Kt 
6 Kt Pt. Kt BtoQ3 
7 Bto K 2 Castles (A) 
8 Castles Kt toB3 

White. Black. 
9 PtoQ4 Q to B3(B) 
10 Pte B4 P to Q Kt 3 
ll Bto Kt2 Bto K Kt 5 
12 PtoQ5(C) Kt to K 2 
13 Kt to Q 2 Bt.B 
14 QtB Q to Kt 3 
15 QRtoBsyq QRtoK sq(D) 
16 PtoK 4 PtoK B4 
17 PtoB3 PtoBs 
riginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

998 
White. 

18 Kt to Kt 3 

19 PtoB5 
20 Kt t.P 

21 KttoQ3 

22 PtoK R3 

23 K to R sq 

24 Bto BS 

25 P t. Kt (F) 
re 

coco certo rs te 
we CODCOD 

( 
t 
33 ti 

34 K to Kt 2 

35 BtoR4 

36 Bto Kt3 
37 Bto K sq 

38 Bto R4 ch 

39 B to Kt 3 

40 Bt. Beh (J) 

41 Rt. R 

42 Rt.R 

43 K toB 3 
44 K to K 3 
45 Pt. P 

46 K toQ3 
AZ K to BS 
48 Pto BG 
49 K t.P 

50 K toQ4 
51 K to K 4 
52 PtoR3 
53 PtoR4 
54 K to Q 5 
55 K to K 5 
56 K to K 6 
57 KtoBS5 
68 Kt. P 

59 K to BS 
60 Kto K 5 
6l KtoQ5 
62 KtoB5 
63 K to Kt 5 
64 Kt. P 

65 K to Kt 6 
66 K to Kt 7 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

"Ss 
=) 

a a 
eoco$d 
S 

\e*] 

VO RO mo 
30 roo 

ADR AURA WR ZODVAAA aA VO 
Ssercesss 

= 
AAD RW AOO 

sssss 
FE 
Po a as 

stot 

Ss 

sr 
roc Men eo hm By 
= 

- 
_ 

ss 
Ti WO 

ssrgs 

Abt rm A by 
2 * 
oo 6O 

PSSSSSOSSSSE 
ro 

SA i RRA UNA 
Oo bat ty 

AR 

sss 

orn 
*" woes 

P-) 
e, 
3 
a 

(A) Black has now a very fair 
position, notwithstanding his adop- 
tion of the “open” against the 
“close” development of his oppo- 
nent. 

(B) The advance of the Pawn 
was not advisable, as sooner or 
later White could attack it with P 
to B 3, thus gaining an open file 
for his Rook, and remaining with a 
very strong array of Pawns in the 
centre. 

(C) Compulsory, if the breaking 
up of the Pawns was to be avoided. 

(D) Most players would decidedly 
prefer Black’s game now. He has 
a strong attack in prospect, against 
which the only sct-off is a slight 
weakness on the Queen's side, which 
ought not to trouble him until the 
very end, even if his attack should 
come to nothing. 

(E) A most ingenious coup, which 
so nearly makes an end of White's 
defence that one must incline to 
helieve it ought to have succecded. 
It appears, however, that he had a 
better move still: ie, 24 Kt t. P. 

(F) There seems sinthdde better, 

(G) The Pawns could not be 
maintained intact, and this was 
about as good a move as White 
had at his command, 

H) 29.... Rt. Bwas decidedly 
better, as although White would 
come out a Pawn ahead after 30 P 
t. B, Rto Q2 (if Rt. R the Pawn 
goes to Queen), 31 P t. P, K R t. 
B P, 32 Rt. P, &e.), the game 
would in all probability be drawn. 

(I) Safe as this appears it is 
none the less a mistake, the ulti- 
mute effect of which is the loss of 
the game. 

(J) White has an easy victory 
now, the Pawn position being won, 
and the exchange of all the pieces 
inevitable. 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

wv 
= 
5 
a 
E 

tg 
= 
A 
> 

S 
ros 
5 BiRno 
~~ Le 
“eo 

Sesss. 
BAAR 
ror A 

WH OCONOO moe y 
e 
co 
8 
a 

COtwewe 
TNR UPR 

ry 
Sess 

15 Q 

33 Ri Bsq) to K Ktsq 
34 Kt (B3) to K sy 

35 Kt to B2 
36 RtoBs 

37 Kt to K 3 (K) 

38 Pt. Kt 

39 Kt to B2 
40 Q to Q3 
41 KtoR4 
42 Q to Q sy 
43 R to Kt 3 
44 Q to Kt 4 

45 K (Kt 3) toB3 

“a 

a 

MASON’S GAMES, 239 

Game 176, played ou the LOth of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

Black. 
J. Masoy. 
PtoK 3 
PtoQ4 
Kt to K B3 
Bto K 2 
Bt. B 
PtoK Kt3(B) 
PtroQR3 
Kt to B 3 
B to Kt 2 
P to Kt 3 (C) 
B to Kt 2 
QtoQ2 
Castles Q R 
B to B sq 
BtoK2 
Kt to R4 
Q Bto B38 (E) 
Bto QO Kt 4 
Pt. B 
K to Kt 2 
R to R sy 
Q to B 3(G) 
KR toQBsy 

RAC RP UOROR 
SSSSSSSs. 
SeEOBOORO. 
2 rrotmms gto 
a on “ 

a © @& 

w — 

bg 
S 
— 

ial 

_ 
whkeor rs 

0 bo Be at bo eo bo od pt 

SSSSSSSE ‘ 

OnWnwon eno 
22 = 

Bw 

White. Black. 

46 P to K 4(!) (L) K to Kt2 
7 PtP BP t P 
48 Kt to Q3 B to K 2 (M) 
49 Rto B2 to Q sq 
50 R(B4)toB3 Qto K sy 
ol KttoB4 R to Kt sq 
52 Kt to R3 R to B sq 
53 Q to Kt 2 B to Q sy 
o4 Rto B 4 Bt K2 
55 QtoB3 B to () 54 
56 KR to B sq K to Kt sq 
57 QtoK 2 Qto B8 
58 RK to Q RK sq Q toQ2 
59 Q to Q sq R to R2 
60 Kto B2 Bto B2 
61 K to Kt3 RtoQ B sq 
62 Q to Kt 4 B to Q sy 

(A) Now thought stronger than 
5 Pto K 5, fullowed by 6 BEL, 
7 Kt to Q sq, &e. 

(B) A dangerous kind of move. 
6....PtoQR3, with the intention 
of soon playing P to Q B 4, was pre- 
ferable. 

(C) With the view of Castling 
Q R, a similar manceuvre on the 
other side being out of the question 
in the face of White’s menacing 
attitude there. 

(D) Mr. Winawer afterwards 
thought this an error, and that he 
should have moved his Bishop and 
Castled on the King's side instead. 
Certainly he would have been quite 
safe in so doing, while his facilitivs 
for attack would have been much 
greater than they appeared to be 
after the move actually adopted by 
him. 

(E) Not well played. 17....K to 
Kt sq, and then R to Q B sq, P to 
Q B 4, &., was better. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNI VE RSITY 

230 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(F) Apprehending danger from 
Black’s contemplated operations on 
the open line, he prepares to shift 
the King over to his own side, 
where he becomes all but unassail- 
able. See Note (D). 

(G) Very mueb like a lost move. 

(H) It is from the necessity of 
defending his unfortunate King’s 
Bishop's Pawn that most if not all 
of Black’s troubles arise. His posi- 
tion soon becomes wholly defen- 
sive, and his best prospect that of 
a very difficult draw. 

(1) His previous move, 30 R to 
B 4, was made under pressure of 
the “ time limit,” hence its apparent 
want of purpose. 

(J) Black’s efforts from here- 
abouts to the end were chiefly di- 
rected to looking after the safety of 
his King’s Bishop’s Pawn and pre- 
venting the establishment of any 
White Knight at Bishop’s sixth. 
But there was always danger that 
his adversary might attempt to 
break through on the Queen’s side, 
which has to be taken into account 
as well, 

(K) A good move. Black must 
tuke the Knight now—thus opening 
up the Bishop's file for White's 
Queen and Rooks to operate upon 
—or it goes to B 6, where he must 
take it, and so let its companion in 
at King’s fifth or Knight's fifth, as 
White might elect. 

(L) Again a very awkward move 
for Black to counter, It is pretty 
obvious he cannot take the Pawn, 
as 47 Kt t. P would leave him with 
an entirely lost game. 

(M) Safe enough, as White can- 
not play R t. P on account of B t. 
P ch, &e. 

(N) Though there is no doubt 
White had the upper hand bere, 
the game was given up as drawn, 
Mr. Winawer not seeing his way to 
win it, chose rather to begin a new 
one than continue this on the chance 
of his adversary making a blunder, 
an event not at all unlikely to 
have happened in a position so 
difficult and discouraging as that 
of Black. 

Game 177, played on the 21st of May. 

RUY 

White Black. 

J, Mason, S. Wrsawer, 
1PtoK 4 PtoKk 4 
2 KttoK B3 KkttoQB3 
38 Bto Kt 5 Ktto B3 
4 KttoB3 B to Kt 5 
5 Castles Castles 
6 PQs Bt. Kt 
7 PLB PtoQ3 
8 Bt. Kt Pt. B 
9 Bto Kt PtoK R383 
10 Bt Kt(A) QtB 
11 Kt to Q2 Q to Kt 4 
12 K to R sq PtoKB4 
13 QtoK2 Pt. P(B) 

ra 
i 

LOPEZ. 
White. Black. 
14 Ktt.P Q to Kt 3 
15 QRtoKtsq BtoK3 
16 Rto Kt 7 Q to B2?)(C) 
17 Ktt. P QtoK2 
18 Ktto K 4 Bt. P 
19 PtoQB4(D) K Rto Kt sq 
20 Rt. Reh Rt. R 
21 KttoB3 R to Kt7 
22 P to B 4 (') P to K 5 (EB) 
23 Ktt. P B to Kt 6 
24 PtooK BS Rt. P 
25 PtoB6 (!) (F) Qteo B2 
26 Q to K sq P to Kt 4(G) 
27 Q to Kt aq BtoRS 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MASON’S GAMES, 

White. Black. 
28 KttoBs Rto K7 
29 Kt t. B Rto K 3 
30 Q to Kt 2 K to R2 
31 Ktto BS R to K sy 
32 K to Kt sq PtoQR4 
33 Qt K B2 R to K 4 
34 PtoQ4 R to K sy 
35 Q to B5 ch K to R sy 
36 QtoQ7 K to Kt sq 
37 Qt. Reh Qt. Q 
38 Pto B7 ch Qt. P 
39 Rt.Q Kt. R 
4) P to Kt 4 PtoR4 
41 PtoRS Resigus. 

(A) White now secures whatever 
advantage may inhere in having a 
Knight against a Bishop, but in 
the present case that advantage is 
about nil. 

(B) 13.... P to B 5 was also 
worthy of consideration at this 
point. 

(C) A downright blunder, such 
as rarely occurs in Mr, Winawer’s 

231 

(D) The Bishop is now slut in 
in such a way that he cau hardly 
escape without loss. 

(E) It will be seen that the 
Pawn could not be saved. Had he 
played 22 .... Q to Kt 5 the 
following was not improbable: 23 
Pt. P, Qt. Kt,24 P to K 6, Qt.P 
at B 2, 25 Qt. Q, Rt. Q, 26 P to 
K7,and wins. If in the foregoing 
24.... Rt. P, then 25 Q to 5, 
QtoB3, 26 QtoK Bch, KtoR 
2,27 Qto B7,andwins. Neither 
would 22.... Bto Kt 6 do, be- 
cause of 23 Qt. P, Qt. Q, 24 P 
t. Q, Bt. P, 25 BR to B 2, &ec.; or, 
if 24.... BtoR7orRtP, 2 
P to K 6, &e. 

(F) As the Pawn cannot be 
taken the game is virtually at an 
end. 

(G) To avoid the consequences 
of 27.... Pt. P he must suffer 

play. 

the loss of his Bishop, 

Game 178, played on the llth of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

B. Enaurscu. J. Mason. 
1PwQ4 PtoK B4(A) 
2PtoQB4 KttoK B3 
8 KttoK B3 Pto K 38 
4PtoK3 P to Q Kt3 
“5 B to K 2 (B) B to Kt 2 

6 Ktto BS B to Kt 5 (C) 
7 BtoQ2 Castles 

8 Castles PtoQR4 

9 Rto Bsq Kt to B38 
10 Pwo QR3 Bt. Kt 
1l Bt. B (D) Kt to K 2 
12 Kt toQ2 Q to K sq 
138 BtoB3 BtB 
14 Ktt.B P to Q 4 (E) 
15 BtoQ2 EtsP 
16 Kt. P Q KttoQ4(F) 

White. Black. 
17 Ktto K 5 Kt toK 5 
18 PtoB3 Kt to Q3 
19 an R to B sq 
20 Q to Kt Q to Kt 4 
21 QtQ Kt t.Q 
22 PtoQR4 Kt toQ 3 
23 Kt to BG K RK to K sq 
wKRtKsy Rto Raq 
25 PtoK 4(G@) Pt.P 
26 Pt.P Kt to K 2 
27 BtooB4 Kt to Kt 3 
28 B to Kt 3 K RtoQ Bag 
29 Kt to K 5 Kt t. Kt 
30 Bt. Kt (A) Kt to K sq (I) 
31 Rto B6 K to B2 
82 KRtQ Bay (J)K to K 2 
33 PtoQs PtP 
)regur il rom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White Black. 
34 Pt. P R to Q sq (K) 
35 Bt. BP Rt. 

36 Bt. P Rte Q7 
37 Bto Bd ch K to Q2 
38 BtoR3 R to Q8ch 
39 RtR Kt. RK 
40 RioQBsqch KtoQ4 
41 PtooK R3 R to R 2 
42 Rto Bich KtoK 5 
43 RtoBs Kt to B3 
44 Bto B5 R to Kt 2 
45 Rt QRS Rt.P 

46 Rt. P KttoQ4 
47 RtoR7 P to Kt 3 
48 Rt. P (L) Kt to B 5(M) 
49 R to K 7 ch KtoB4 
50 Bto B2 RtoR7 
51 RtoK B7ech KtoK5 
52 PtoK R4(?)(N)KRt. P 

53 Bto Kt3 Kt to K 7 ch 
54 K to R2 Kt t. B 
55 Kt. Kt K to K 4 
56 RtoB3 R to Kt 5 
57 KtoR3 RtoR5 
58 R to @ Kt3 Kto B38 
59 P to Kt 4 RtoQBS5 
60 K to Kt 3 Rto kK 5 
61 Rto Kt 6 ch K to Kt 2 
62 Rto Kt 7 ch K to Kt sq 
63 K to BS K to B sy 
64 RtoQ7 R to Kt 5 
65 Reto Q5 Kto B2 
66 Rto K 5 KtoB3 

67 RtoK 4 Rto Kt 3 
68 RtoQB4 RtoR8 
69 P to Kt 5 ch KtoB4 
70 RtoK Bach KtoK 4 
71 K te Kt 4 Rto Kt 3 
72 Rt R4 K to K 3 
73 PtoRS5 Pt. P ch 
74 Kt. P K to B2 
75 RtoR8(O) KtoKt2 
76 Rto R7 ch K to Kt sq 
77 RtoQB7 RteoQR3 
78 RtoK7 RK to Q Kt 3 
79 K to Kt 4 RtoQR3 
80 Kto Bd R to Q Kt 3 
&l Pto Kt 6 R to Kt 8 

Drawn game. 

(A) Morphy held this to be 
Black’s best reply to 1 P to Q 4 

on the part of White. Nowadays, 
however, the weight of opinion is 
against it and in favour of 1.... 
PtoQ4orl....Pto K 3, it 
being considered that the difficulty 
Black usually experiences in de- 
veloping his Queen’s forces more 
than offsets whatever advantage he 
gains in evading the Gambit as in 
the text. 

(B) As a rule this is the best 
way to play the Bishop in Open- 
ings of this description. 

(C) So it may be fairly suspected 
that Black would have done better 
here had he followed his adver- 
sary’s example in posting Lis Bishop 
at King’s second. 

(D) White has now a very fine 

osition, while that of his opponent 
is just about so much the worse. 

(E) Reluctantly enough was the 
necessity of this recognised or 
imagined at the time. 14....P 
to R 3 looks better play, 

(F) Could this Knight hold his 
ground all might be well; but, 
as the sequel shows, he cannot, 
The weakness of Black’s Queen’s 
Bishop's Pawn and the difficulty 
he has in defending it very nearly 
costs him the game, 

(G) With this move, so long 
threatened and so well timed, 
Black's troubles begin in earnest. 

(H) The great power of the 
Bishop as compared with the 
Knight in this part of the contest 
is somewhat remarkable. 

(1) White threatened to win the 
Pawn offhand through 30 R to B 
ti, and this seemed the only way to 
avoid it. 

(J) 31 R to K B ch looks 
stronger, to be followed by 32 P to 
@ 5 should Black play 31....K 
to K 2. Very probably, in playing 
as he did, White, for the moment, 
failed to see that he could not 
immediately take the Bishop's 
Pawn. 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MASON’S GAMES, 235 

(K) Merely defensive measures 
being no longer of any avail, Black 
is obliged to take the hazard of a 
counter-attack as his only chance 
of averting certain defeat. 

(L) Doubtful sort of play. He 
should rather have directed his 
efforts to the advancement of his 
passed Pawn. 

(M) With this move Black gets 
all he hoped for—a position which, 

if not absolutely drawn, is as near 
being so as the nature of things 
would admit. 

(N) After this, with correct 
play on Black’s part, it is not pos- 
sible for White to win. He should 
noéver have abandoned the Rook’s 
Pawn. 

(O) If 75 P to Kt 6 ch, then 75 
....K to Kt 2,76 R to R7 ch, K 
to Kt sq,77 K to Bt 6, R to Kt sq, 
and the game is drawn. 

—+104—— 

Game 179, played ou tho 25th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

J. Masoyx. B. Exourscu. 
1PteoKDB4 PwQ4 
2PtwK3- KttoK B3 
3 KttoK B3 PtwoQB4 
4BtoK2 PtoK 3 
5 PtoQ Kt3 Bto K 2 
6 Bto Kt 2 KttoB3 
7 Castles Castles 
8 BtoKt5(A) BtoQ2 
9 Bt. Kt Bt. B 
10 Kt to K 5 RtoQBsy 
ll KttoQB3 Kt to Q2 
12 Kt to K 2 PtoB3 
13 Ktt. B Rt Kt 

14 P to K Kt 4(B) P to K 4 
15 Kt to Kt 3 Pt.P 

16 Pt. P Rto K sq 
17 QtoB3 Kt to Kt 3 
18 Q Rto K sq B to B sq 
19 Kt to B5 QtoQ2 

20 Kt to K 3 Q R to B sq 
21 K to Rsq PtoQs5 

22 Kt to Kt 2 Q to Q 4 (C) 
23 Qto B2 BwoQ3 
24 PtoQ3 QtoBs 

25 K to Ktsq(D) KttoQ4 
26 B to B sq Q to B2 

27 BW Q2 Q to B3 

2 PtoQR4 P toQ Kt 3(E) 
29 QtoB3 Rt. R 

30 Ktt. R R to K sq 

White. Black. 
31 Kt to Kt 2 Kt to K 2(F) 
Drawn game. 

(A) Notwithstanding the un- 
favourable consequences attending 
this move in the preceding game 
between the same players (in a 
position as nearly as possible iden- 
tical with the present one), here it 
is again; and, though followed up 
in a different and perhaps better 
way than in the first instance, it 
affords as little advantage in the 
one case as in the other. 

(B) Safe enough; but nothing 
more can be said in its favour. 

(C) Being second player, Black 
plays to secure the draw, as this 
and some of his previous moves 
sufficiently indicate. As matters 
stand, however, his game is to be 
taken for choice, and he should 
have played to win. 

(D) Necessary, to release the 
Knight and for other reasons. 

(E) Had he been playing to win, 
doubtless 28 .... PtoQ R 3 
would have been his move. At all 
events, it seems as if he might 
have at least attempted to make 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

93-4 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

something of the position on the 
Queen’s side, where he was so much 
stronger than his opponent. 

(F) At this point the draw was 

mutually agreed upon. But, if 
the players had been as determined 
to win as they were willing to draw, 
it is obvious there was enough 
miuaterial left for a yoodly trial. 

Game 180, played on the 26th of May. 

QUEEN’S GAMBIT REFUSED. 

White. Black. 
B. Enouiscu. J. Mason, 
1PwowQst PtoQ4 
2PeoQB4 Pto Kk 3 
3 KtwQbBb3 B to Kt 5 (A) 
4PioK3 Ktw K B38 
5 Qto Kt 3 Kt toB3 
6 KttoB3 Q to K 2 
7 Pt QR3 Bt. Kt 
8 Qt. B(B) Castles 
9 BoQs Pt? 
10 Qt. P P to K 4(C) 
11 Pt. P (D) Kt t. P 
12 Kt t. Kt Q t. Kt 
13 Castles Bto K 3 
14 QtoB2 K K to Q sq 
15 PtoB4(E) QtQ4 
16 Bto K2 PtoB3 
17 PtoQ Kt 4 Bto B4 
18 Qto R2 Qt, Q 
19 Kt. Q B to Q 6 (F) 
20 BtoKt2(G) KttoK5 
21 BtoQ4 Bt.B 
22 Rt.B PtoQ Kt3 
23 RtoQB2 QR to Bsq 
24 Pto BS P to B3(H) 
2K RwWQBsq RtwOQS8 
2 Pte QR4 PtoQB4 
27 PtoR5 K Rt B38 
28 RPt.P R Pt. P 
29 Pt. P Pt. PI) 
30 Rto Bd K to B2 
31 Bto Kt2 Kt to Q3 
32 KRtoB4 RtoR3 
33 R to Q sq QRtoB3 
34 Pto K 4 RtoR5 
35 PtoKkt3(J) Ktt.K P(K) 
36 RtoQ7ch K to K sq 
37 Rt. P R to Kt 3 

White. Black. 
38 R(Kt 7) toKte4 R(Kt3)toKt5 

39 B to B sq Pto KR 4 

40 RtoR4 K to Q2 

41 R to B sq Kt to B6 

42 Rt. P Kt to K 7 ch 

43 KtoB2(L) RtoR7 

44 R to R7 ch K to B3 

45 BioK 3 R to Kt 6 (!) 

46 KtoB3(M) KttoQich 

47 K to B4 R to R5(N) 

48 RtoK 7 Kt to B 7dis.ch 

49 KtoB3 R (R545) to R6 

50 R to K 6 ch K to Kt 4 

51 RtoK 8 Ktt.B 

52 RtoKt8ch KtoB3 

53 Rt R Rt. R 

54 R to Q B sq Kt t. P dis. ch 

55 K to Kt 4 Kt to Kt 2 

56 PtoR4 R to Kt 5 ch 

57 KtoR38 PtoB4 

58 Kto K B sy R to Kt sq 

59 R to QR sq PtoQB5 

60 K to Kt 2 K to Q 4 

61 Kto B3 Kt to K 3 
Resigns 

(A) The remarks concerning this 
move as made in the previous 
games between the same players 
may be equally well applied here. 
It is not good, 

(B) 8 Pt. B was better play. 

(C) A bold step; but whether 
sound or not it is difficult to say. 

(D) The natural alternative, 11 
P to Q 5, would, perhaps, have 
proved more embarrassing for 

requir al rom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MASON’S GAMES. 235 

Black, inasmuch as it would have 
compelled cither the retreat of 
the Knight or the temporary, if 
not absolute, sacrifice of a Pawn, 
through 11 .... PtoK 5, 12 P 
t. Kt, P t. B or Kt, &. 

(E) This seems weak; but it is 
evident White has already lost 
considerable ground, and is no 
‘longer on anything like a level 
with his antagonist. 

(F) In thus forcing the exchange 
of Bishops Black takes the only 
means of securing his ascendency. 

(G) Just one move too late. 
Black is able to keep his Knight, 
and with it his chances of winning. 

(H) Of course it would not do 
to have allowed the White Pawan 
to go much further. 

(I) As will be seen, the difficulty 

of making anything out of this 
solitary passed Pawn is very great. 

(J) Intending P to K 5—a move 
which a little examination will 
show could not be made imme- 
diately without loss. 

(K) Venturesome ; but it seemed 
the only way to make any progress 
towards bringing matters to a de- 
cisive issue. 

(L) Apparently best; but in 
reality much inferior to 43 K to 
Kt 2, as will be seen further on. 

mm) Could the Bishop be played 
to B 2 instead of this (which under 
the circumstances is probably his 
Lest) all might be well; but as it 
is the diffieullics of the situation 
svon become overwhelming. 

(N) The winning move. 

Game 181, played on the 15th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
J. Morrmen, J, Masoyx 
1PtwoK4 PtoK 3 
2PtoQ4 PwQ4 
3 KttoQ B3 Kt to K B3 
4 Bto K Kt5 Bto K 2 
5 Pto K 5 (A) K Kt to Q 2 
6Bt.B Qt. B 
7 QtoQ2 Castles (B) 
8 Kt to Q sq PtoQB4 
9 PtoQB3 KttoQB3 
10 PtoK B4 Pt. P 
Pte P to B3 (C) 
12 KttoK B3 Pt. P 
13 BPt. P Kt to Kt 3 
14 RtoQBeq BtoQ2 
15 Bto K 2 B to K sq 
16 Castles (D) BtoR4 
17 KttoK 3 Bt. Kt 
18 Rt. B Rt. R 
19 Bt R K to K Bag 

White. 
20 P te Q Kt3 RtoBs 
21 Kt to B2 R to B sq (E) 
Drawn game, 

Black, 

(A) As played in many games in 
the Tournament, 5 B t. Kt has been 
proved fully equal if not superior 
to this, which had generally been 
considered as White's best. 

(B) It used to be thought neces- 
sary to ASR ac R 3, 
but as White gains nothing by 
8 Kt to Kt 5 (which the Pawn’s 
move was intended to prevent), it 
seems Black may safely Castle. 

(C) 11 ....Q to Kt 5, forcing 
the exchange of Queens, would not 
have been bad. 

(D) White's position now is, if 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

236 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

anything, preferable to his oppo- 
nent’s, 

(E) Black proposed and White 
accepted the draw, as, with careful 

play on both sides, the process of 
bringing matters to a more deci- 
sive issue promised to be long, 
difficult, mad even impussible, 

Game 182, played on the 18th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 

J. Mason, J. Mortimer. 30 K Rto B2 QtoB2 
1PtokK4 Ptok4 31 Pte K R38 Rto Bé(?) EF) 
2KttoKB3 KttoQB3 32 Pt.R Pt. P 
3 Bto Kt5 PtoQR3 33 Rt. P R to Kt 4 ch 
4 BtoR4 Kt to B3 34 Qt. R PtQ 
5 PtoQ3 PtQ3 35 RtoB7 Resigns. 

6 QKt to Q2(A) BtoQ2 

a 7 to B - (A) Bto ! 2 (A) Not as good perhaps as the 

8 BtoK Kt5 PtoKR3 usual move of Kt to B 3. 

9 QBt. Kt Bt. B (B) White's conduet thus far has 
10 Bt. Kt : Bt. B(B) : been more or less perfunctory, with 
] 1 Kt to Kt3(C) P to K Kt 3 the consequence that his antago. 
12 QtoK2 Q to K2 nist has a much more simple and 
2 sh a aa : ~ 2 : mi rye cs play rapt he pe 

a ve at such an eurly stage of the 
15 Pto B38 PtoQ4(? KD) 
16 PtP Castles K It iS . 
Ye Pit Bt. P (C) Here, this Knight ought to 
18 Castles K R B to Kt 2 have gone to King’s third. 
Ad =e Ait " Aes tT (D) An evident and irremediable 
21 Pt. P Pt.P boner 
22 Kt to Q 4 Bt. Kt (E) Suicidal. But after bis irri- 
23 Pt. B RtoB 5 tating slip at move 15, Mr. Mortimer 
2s Kt ey Y Q to B38 no doubt felt himself inclined to 
25 Q to K 54 R to K B a vigorous measures, however desyie- 
26 Bi KS KtoR2 rate, rather than to a temporising 
A Ss toQ ag Qtok 3 course, which, though prolonging 
29 K by 7 ts 9 hg 4 the struggle, should not seriously 

influence its result. 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MASON’S GAMES. 237 

Game 183, played on the 20th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. (A) In striving to simplify mat- 
G. H. Mackezte. J. Masow. i rik the “ exchange sro 
Black not been very successful, 
: ait B3 Abad and a distinct advantage in deve- 
8PtcB4 Ktto K B3 lopment is now to the credit of his 
4 Bto Kt 5 BtoK2 epee. 
5 Ktto B83 PtoB3 (B) This Rook, as the position 
6 PtoK3 PtP stood, was not only of no value for 
7 Bt.P Kt toQ 4 defensive purposes, but possibly in 
8 Bt. B Qt. B the way,as affairs might easily shape 
9 Castles Kt t. Kt themselves so as to require tho 
10 Pt. Kt Kt to Q 2 presence of Queen or Knight at 
ll Bto Kt 3 PtoQ Kt3 Bishop's square, or even to render 
12 Qt. Q3 B to Kt 2 a movement of the King that way 
+ = R = k K Sarg) * R highly salutary. 
to B2( to Kt ti : 
5 Pto K 4 KR to Ox ®) cl A well-timed and cautious 
6 QtK3 to eee lan 
17 GR Qm Sag ) White’s 22 Q to B 4 was a 
18 Pt. P Q Rto Baq slip apparently, this being taken as 
19 Bto Kt8 K to Kt 2 its consequence. The further ex- 
20 PtoKR3(C) RtoB2 changes operate strongly in favour 
91 Kt to R 2 KttoB3 of a draw; and, in so much, may 
22 QtoK B4(?) Rt. P(D) be considered in agreement rather 
82RtLR PtoK 4 with his adversary’s design than 
24 QtoQ2 PtR his own. 
25 PtoK 5 Kt to Kt sq (E) 26 P to K 6 looked strong, 
26 Qt. P (E) QtoB4 but Black had a perfectly valid 
27 Qt KB4 BtoQ4 answer to it in 26....Pt. P. 
a oven . tes 3 (F) Aiming at the riddance of 
30 K to R2 PtoKR4 the troublesome Pawn at King's 
81 Kt to K 8 RtoK3(F) ‘fifth. 
32 Kt to B 4 PtoB3 (G) Here Black ezpresly pro- 
33 R to K 8 Pt. P posed the draw, and White acceded 
34 Rt, P RtR to it; though most players would 
35 Kt t. R Q toQ4 take the latter's position for choice, 
36 Qto Kt 5 QtoK 3 and not a few would play it on, as 
37 PtoB4 Kt to R 3(G) with the hope, if not assurance, of 
Drawn game. ultimate success, 

| fron 

NIVERSITY 

PRINCETON U 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 184, played on the Gth of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

J. Mason. GQ. H. Macwenzte. 
1PtQ4 P to Q4 
2BtoK B4 PtoK 3 
3 KttoK B3 Kt to K B3 
4PtoK3 Bto Q3 (A) 
5 Bto K Kt 3 Castles 
6 BwQ3 PtoB4 
7 PtoB3 Kt to B38 
8 Q KttoQ2 R to K sq 
9 KttoK5(B) QtoB2 
10 PteK B4 Pt.QP 
IiEKPtP PtoK Kt 3(C) 
12 Castles K to Kt 2 
13 QtoB2 K Kt to Kt sq 
14 Q R to K sq P to B 4 (D) 
15 QKttoKB3 KttoK B3 
16 PtoK R3(E) Bt Q2 
17 QtoK2 Kt to K 5 
18 BtoR2 R to K 2 
19 K to R sq Rto K Kt sq 
20 RtoK Ktsq K to B sy (F) 
21 PtoK Kt 4(G) R(K2)to Kt2 
22 Rto Kt 2 B to K sq 
23 QRto K Ktsq PtoQR3 
MPtoQR3 KttoQsq 
25 Bto K Kt 3 P toQKt 4(H) 
26 BtoK R4 Bto K 2 
27 BtoKtb (I) BtsB 
28 Pt. B Kt to B2 
29QtoK3(J) Kt(B2)tcQ3 
30 K to K B sq Rto K 2 
31 Qto K sq K to Kt 2 
32 Pt. P KPtP 
33 QtoR4 R to B sq 
34 QtoB4 Kt to B 2 (KR) 
35 PtoK R4 Kt to Q sq 
36 KttoK Ktsq KttoK3 
37 QtoB3 Q toQ3 
38 RtoKsq(L) PtoQR4 
39 Kt to K 2 P to Kt 5 (M) 
40 RPt. P PtP 
41 QtoK 3 P+. P 
42 Pt. P PtoBd 
43 QtoR3 B to Q2 
44 Kt t. B(N) Rt. Kt 
45 RtoKk Bsq KttoQ7 

White. Black. 
46 Ktt. P Kt t. Kt 
47 Rt. Kt Rt 
48 Rt. Kt R(Q2)tokK B2 
49 K to Kt 2 Q to K B sy 
50 Q to K 3 R to Kt 5 ch 
51 KtoR2 Rto K 2 
52 Qto B2 RtoKB5 
53 Q to Kt 2 Rt. Pech 
54 K to Kt sq Rto K 8ch 
55 Bto B sq Rt. Beh 

Resigns. 

(A) The opening moves will be 
found similar to those in the game 
Mason v. Blackburne, in which the 
latter played this same 4.... B 
to Q 3. 

(B) One of the “ points” White 
must make in situations of this 
kind is to prevent the early advance 
of the rival K P to K 4,as if he be 
unable to keep it in check it will 
usually have the effect of seriously 
disorganising his whole plan of 
operations, 

(C) Apprehensive of what, in. 
deed, White was contemplating— 
viz.: the effect of 12....BtoR 
4, a movement which, if once 
made, could be consistently fol- 
lowed up only by a general attack 
with very probable decisive results. 

(D) Itis easy to see why 14.... 
P to B 3 would have been bad, or 
would have lost the game almost 
offhand, 

(E) To preserve the Bishop in 
case Black attacked it by Kt to R 
4; and for “other purpcses” in- 
capable of mention, if the mere fact 
of moving be excepted. 

(F) Better than K to R sq, asin 
time the latter square might prove 
a little too safe should His Majesty 

inal fron 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

MASON’S GAMES, 239 

by chance find it convenient to de- 
sire to change his quarters. 

(G) The contest now becomes 
difficult for both players. Though 
the position is extremely complex 
and the variety of the forces at 
work very great, a slight error on 
either side should prove as irreme- 
diable as if occurring in a plain 
and simple end-game. 

(H) With a situation on the 
King’s side admitting of no im. 
provement some such play as this 
seems imperative if the status quo is 
to be preserved, or rathor the onus of 
disturbing it thrown upon White. 

(I) The scheme of which the 
movements of this Bishop form a 
part seems sound enough in the 
main, but there is no doubt as to 
its weakness in the trifling matter 
of execution. 

(J) And it is just here the weak- 
ness comes in. Instead of playing 
the Queen, White should have con- 
tinued with 29 Kt t. Kt and 30 Kt 
to K 5,as Black could not take the 
Kt P momentarily exposed unless 
at a loss. Suppose :—29 Kt t. Kt, 
B t. Kt, 30 Kt to K 5, Kt t. Kt 
P, 31 Pt. P, Kt Pt. P, 32 Q to 
K 3, &e., with a very fine game. 
Of course, in the above, 29 .... 
Qt. Ktand 30....QtoK 2 might 

be given as stronger for Black; 
but then he would get no Pawn, 
while his position might not un- 
justly be considered as inferior to 
White’s. It should, perhaps, be 
added that White offended against 
“ the principles,” as well as in de- 
tail, in failing to exchange K nights, 
as he could then maintain his own 
remaining one at King’s fifth, while 
Black would either have to with- 
draw his or leave it at the mercy of 
White’s Bishop. And because—in 
short, because events provethe Black 
Knights so amazingly numerous 
andenterprising that White heartily 
wished he had got rid of at least one 
of them when he could have done 
80 with impunity. 

(K) A capital move. White 
dare not move his Queen because 
of the advance of the Black Bishop's 
Pawn. 

(L) The game is now altogether 
in favour of Black, and is brought 
to an issue by him with great skill 
and judgment. 

(M) Owing to the necessity of 
preventing an immediate advance 
of the Bishop’s Pawn, all this could 
not be properly provided against. 

(N) Obviously there was nothing 
else. In fact hereabouts, and up 
to the end, White’s moves are vir- 
tually forced. 

Game 185, played on the 31st of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. White. Black. 

J. Mason. S. WInawer. 8 Ktto K 2 PtoB4 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 3 9 PtoB3 B to Kt 2 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 10 PtoK 5 Bto K 2 
3 KttoQB3 Kt to K B38 11 Castles (B) BtoR3 
4 BtoK Kt5 Bto K 2 12 Kt to K sq Bt.B 
5 Bt. Kt Bt.B 13 Ktt. B PtoBsd 
6 KttoK B3 Castles 14 Kt to K sq PtoQ Kt4(C) 
7 BtoQ3 PtoQ Kt3(A) 15 KttoB2 PtoQR4 

Irniginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

240 

White. Black. 
16 PtoK B4 PtoK B4 
17 P to K Kt 4(D) P to Kt 3 (B) 
18 Pt.P Kt Pt. P 
19 K to R sq K to R sq 
20 RtoB3(F) Rto Ktsq 
21 KttoK 3 R to Kt 3 
22 RtoR 3 Q to Kt sq (G@) 
23 Kt to Kt 3 Kt to B3 
24 Qto BS R to Q B sq 

25 QR to K Kt sq Rto B2 

26 KttoK 2 Rt. R ch 

27 Ktt.R B to B sq 

28 Rto Kt 3 Qto B2 

29 KttoR$ Bto K 2 

30 Kt to Kt 5 Bt. Kt 

31 RtB P to Kt 5 (HN) 

32 PtoK R4 R to Bsq 

33 K to R 2 (I) Kt to K 2 

34 K to R38 R to K Kt sq 

35 PtoR 5 PtoK R38 

36 Rt.Rch Ktt.R 

a7 PiPr PtP 

38 Kt to B2 Qto Q R2 (J) 

39 Kt t. P (K) Qt.QP 

40 Qto K 2 Kt to K 2 

41 K to Kt 3 Q to Kt 8 ch 

42 KtoR3 Q to R8 ch 

43 K to Kt 3 “oo 
) 

44 Q to Kt 2 Kt to K 5ch 

45 K toB3 QtoKs 

46 Q to R2 Kt to Q 7 ch 

47 K to Kt 2 Q to B8 ch 

48 K to Kt 3 QtoB6ch 

49 KtoR4 Q to Kt 5) &: 

“50 Mate. 

(A) 7....P to B 4 is worthy 
of attention as well, 

(B) White thought it too risky 
to play Pto K R 4, &., giving over 
Castling altogether, at least on the 
King’s side, and trusting solely to 
attacking mancuvres for success. 

(0) Having got rid of the adverse 
King’s Bishop, Black is now toler- 
ably safe as regards the situation 
of his King, and withal possesses 
certain advantages on the Queen's 
side, the value of which Lecomes 
manifest as the game progresses. 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(D) There is nothing to be said 
against this, though perhaps it 
looks more promising than was 
justified by events. 

(E) Better than 17.... Pt. P, 
which would of course be answered 
by 18 Kt to Kt 3. 

(F) Poor play indeed. 20 R to 
K Kt sq was the natural and 
correct move. 

(G) Black has now that com- 
mand of the open file which White 
should have had he dispensed with 
the worse than useless moves of his 
King’s Rook. 

(H) From this point the game is 
well in Mr. Winawer's favour, and 
he loses no opportunity of pressing 
his advantage to the utmost. 

(I) Very indifferent play all this. 
White should have abandoned all 
idea of attack, retreated his Rook, 
and striven for nothing more than 
a draw. 

(J) This clever move virtually 
decides the game. 

K) About as good as anything 
else. If 39 Qto B 2 or K 3, then 
39....Qt.R P,and White can- 
not play 40 Kt t. P without losing 
the Knight. 

(L) No doubt the reader will see 
what neither of the players saw at 
the time—to wit, that this is what 
is usually known as a “ false” or 
“impossible” move. It was not 
discovered to be such until some 
days after the game had been 
played and when the official eopy of 
the score came to be examined. It 
was a powerful stroke, and in every 
sense of the word a successful one, 
as it left White absolutely without 
resource. (a) 

(a) The only explanation that 
can be afforded regarding this 
singular impossible move having 
been made and not detected is that 
the adjournment had taken place 

nal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MASON’S GAMES, 241 

just previously, and the position of 
the pieces was probably taken down 
incorrectly on the diagram handed 
to the member of the Playing Com- 
mittee, and Black’s Kt was placed 

onthe Q 2 instead of the K 2, thus 
affording Mr, Winawer the oppor- 
tunity for his brilliant coup, but 
for which the game would have 
probably been drawn.—Eprror. 

+e — 

Game 186, played on the 4th of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

J. Masoy, S. RosenrHat. 
1PtcQ4 PtoQ4 
2BtoB4 Pto K 3 
3 PtoK3 K Kt to B3 
4PwoQR3 PtoB4 
5 QKttoB3(A) PtoQR3 
6 KttoB3 Kt to B3 
7BtK2(B) BtwK2 
8 Castles Castles 
9 PtP Bt.P 
10 BtoQ3 Bt Q3 
ll BtoK Kt 5 P to R.3 (C) 
12 BtoR4 BtoK 2 
13 BR to Kt sq PtoQ Kt4(D) 
14 PtoK4 PtoQd 
15 Kt to K 2 Ptok 4 
16 Bto Kt3 BtoQ3 
17 Kt toQ2 Btok 3 
18 RtoRsq(E) Rto Bsq 
19 PtoR3 P to Kt 4 
20 PtoQR4 Kt toQKt 5(F) 
21 Pt.P PtP 
22 Kt t. P (G) Pt. Kt 
23 PtoK 5 Kt t. B 
24 Pt. Kt at B6(? 

(H) Kt to Bd 
25 RtoR6 BtoK 4 
26 Bt. Kt Bt.B 
27 KttoK 4 QwQ4 

Resigns 
(A) In most cases of this Open- 
ing White played P to Q B 8 some- 

where about here, and then brought 
out the Knight at Q 2, omitting 
altogether, if possible, the move P 
to Q R 3. The plan adopted in 
the present instance seeins good— 
perhaps better than the other. 

(B) As this Bishop goes to 

Queen’s third in a move or two, 
perhaps he should have gone there 
immediately. But then, in close 
Openings, it does not follow that 
because two moves are taken to 
accomplish what might just as well 
be done in one that there isa move 
“lost,” in the sense usually under- 
stood in open games, where the 
attack and defence are well defined, 
and “time” is of the first im- 
portance. ; 

(C) 11....B to K 2 at once 
was safer play. 

(D) Nor can this be altogether 
commended, though it does seem 
the most feasible way of bringing 
the Queen’s Bishop into action. 
The advanced Pawns are weak, and 
invite attack not easily provided 
against. 

(E) With the object of pushing 
the Queen’s Rook’s Pawn, and so 
attacking Black's weakest point. 

(F) There was no other more 
satisfactory move—if, indeed, this 
can be called one, On the merits 
White's situation is in many re- 
spects to be preferred just here. 

(GQ) Perfectly sound, if properly 
followed up. _ 

(H) But of course this extra- 
ordinary blunder puts an end to 
the game. The correct play was 
24 B P t. Kt. Whereupon, after 
the following likely moves, viz.: 24 
....BtoK 2, 25 Pt. Kt, Bt. P, 
26 Pto B4, it appears that White, 
at least, could scarcely be found at 
much of a disadvantage. 

R 

val fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

242 

Mason. 

5 

— he 
oon 

18 Bt. K P(F) 
19 P to Kt 5 (!) 
20 Bt. Kt 

21 Ktto K 5 
22 Rt.R 

23 Pt. RP (H) 
24 Kt toQ2 

25 Kt(K 5) toB4 

26 Kt to Q6 
27 Pw Q Kt4 
28 Kt to Kt3 
29 Kt to Kt 7 

30 Kt(Kt 7)to BS 

ow 
tor 
a AS 
+855 
ies] 
5 
w~ 
rae 
So 

RFOROWARA 
ao 

SPRERPSSESSREE 
lastest -ladsdsdadal <ied 
WSSeeers 

A 

ee Fate bg bo 
- 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 187, played on the 6th of June. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

ab 
ST SsH oss 
Soe 

ecoPnoto 

= 
Cl etdaie 

= 

4 
sRUmsoOF 
FO 
sz * 

eZ 
—_ 

hee) wh -Ee-]- Bod ho-B--| 

RAR ROW 

co 

WHAM RR ORR RA RA Ne eR OoROOmbE 
ToRS 

FMSSSEKKKSHTSSMSSSSSESSESTSK SK sar rs as 

TT RAR TOR 

White. Black. 
46 K t. P P to Kt 5 
47 Kt. P Pt. P 
48 Kt. P K toB2 
49 K to KA K to Q3 
50 K to BS K to K 2 
51 K to K 5 K to Q2 
52 Kto BG K to Q3 
53 PtoB5ch ‘Resigns. 

(A) This move, and the peculiar 
treatment of the Opening which it 
involves, though frequently adopted 
by White with success, is not to be 
generally recommended. 

(B) G....Pt.P,oreven6.... 
P to B 5, was perhaps better; the 
time spent in twice playing B to Q 
3 is very much wanting later on. 

(C) 10 B t. Kt not seeming fa- 
vourable, this appeared the natural 
alternative. The exchange of Queens 
was so little in the direction of 
a draw that Black should have 
avoided it by 10....Qto B2. 

(D) White’s object, hereabouts, 
was to play Pto K 4, a manceuvre 
which could not be attempted with 
safety as long as the Black Knight 
sino on King’s Bishop's third. 

(E) 16.... Bt. Kt would have 
been equally well answered by 17 
P to K 4. 

(F) Black can hardly escape loss 
of some sort now. And it does not 
appear that 18....Q Rto Qsq, in- 
steadof18.... K R to Qsq, would 
have helped him materially, though 
it would have evaded the particular 
difficulty now arising. 

(G) Clearly 19....P t. P or 
Kt moves would not do; so there 
was nothing better than to attack 
the Bishop. 

(H) White failed to make the 

I 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MASON’S GAMES, 248 

most of the position at this point, 
for 22 Kt t. Q B P was in 
every way superior to the move 
actually made—eg., 22 Kt t. Q 
B P, B t. Kt, 23 P t. B, fol- 
lowed by 24 Kt to (Q) 4 or B 5, 
whatever Black may play, with an 
easily winning game. Or, 22.... 
B ty Kt 4(or B3), 23 Q Kt to Q4, 
and ‘as in the previous case White 
must secure two passed Pawns and 
win with ease. 

(I) Limited as their action is, 
the two Bishops are very strong 
for defensive purposes. White 
seeks to compel an exchange, and 
Black to avoid it—unless, indeed, 
he can recover some of his lost 
ground in the transaction. 

(J) This should have been de- 
ferred until absolutely forced. 

(K) 35.... Bt. P would lose, 
because of 36 Rt. B ch, Rt. R, 37 
Kt t. R, Kt. Kt, 38 P toQ B4, P 

to R 4 (best), 39 
Kt 3,40 PtoR 3, K to B 

to K 3, K to Q 3, 42 P to Kt 4, B 
PtP, 4B BPtP, Pt. P, 44P 
to R 4, &., the White King keep- 
ing the Black Pawns in check 
while one of his own, on either side, 
goes to queen. Of course the fore- 
going may be varied in many ways ; 
but with correct play on White’s 
part it seems he should win in 
every case. 

(L) Intending 38 R to R 5, as 
played. But Black’s move, 36.... 
R to Kt 2, is inferior to 36....P 
to R 4, seeing that he is imme- 
diately afterwards compelled to take 
the Pawn, which he had refused to 
do at move 34. 

(M) 41 P to R 3 would also 
win, the position being similar to 
that considered in note (K), and 
still more favourable for White. 

—— oo — 

Game 188, played on the 7th of Jime, 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black 

A. SELLMAN J. Mason 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 3 
2PtcQ4 Pto Q4 

3 PtP PtP 

4 K KttoB3 K Kt to B3 
5 BtoQ3 BtoQ3 

6 Castles Castles 

7 QKttoB3 PtoBS 

8 Kt to K 2 Bto K Kt 4 
9 Kt to Kt 3 QtoB2 
10 PtooK R3 Bto K 3 
ll Ktto B 5 Bt. Kt 
12 Bt.B Q Kt to Q 2 
13 Pt. B3 P to K Kt 3 
14 BtoQ3 Kt to K 5(A) 
15 PtoB4 PtooK B4& 
16 Pt. P Ft? 
17 QtoKt3(B) Ktto Kt: 
18 Q Bto RG K RtoQ Bsq 

White. Black. 

19 QR to Baq Kt to B 5(C) 
Drawn game. 

(A) Black has a very fair posi- 
tion now. 

(B) Up to and including this 
move the gamo is identical with 
the ono played the day immediately 
preceding between Messrs. Sellman 
and Winawer. In answer, how- 
ever, to this play of the Queen, 
Mr. Winawer moved Q Kt to B 3, 
perhaps a stronger move than Kt 
to Kt 3, as given in the present 
instance. 

(C) At this point, just when the 
contest was getting interesting, the 
draw was proposed and agreed to, 

1 tre 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

244 

SSees 
a eng 
2 by 

w 

se 
6 
& ro Soo 

SMOnDODR diet mt : 
SASSS 

gs PROR 

& 

Caen 
KSCOnNASo ep wrH 

a & 
~“) 
2 ro 

fo) 
4 

13 Kt to K 5 

White. 

A. Seriman. 

Ay 
o 
S 
A 
td 
Je) 

— 
: 

et ht ee 
PON eK OO CON OP COD eH 
SBUIROOVAWTAN dW ROWoOW 
Bae -~ 
=o 3S gos 
8 ABAD ORO 
Ps “~ 

SSSR Uah 

ws 
SSessx 
DROW WWS 

to 
SR 

Re 
o 
S 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 189, played on the 18th of June. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. 

A. SELLMAN. 

White. Black. 
14 PB Kt to K 5 
15 PtoK B4 Kt t. Kt 
16 Qt. Kt PtoK B4(A) 
Drawn game. 

(A) This, like the game pre- 
viously drawn between the same 
players, is scarcely worthy of 1e- 

mark, 

In neither case did either 

of the contestants propose to him- 
self any greater task than not fo 
lose, the real struggle coming in 
the third or final game, which was 
fought out to the bitter end, 

Game 190, played on the 16th of June. 

PHILIDOR. 

Black. White. 

J. Mason. 293 Rto K 2? 
P to K 4 24 P to Q Kt3 
P to Q3 25 QtoBsq | 
Ptr 26 B to K sq 
BtoQ2 27 Qte B2 
Kt toQB3 28 BtoQ2 
Kt to B 3 29 K R to K sq 
PwoQR3 30 Rt.R 
RtoK2 31 Rt. R 
Q to B sq (A) 32 KttoB3 
Kt t. Kt 33 Qt.Q3 
Kt to K 4 34 BtoB2 
PwKB3 35 B to Kt sq 
Castles 36 B to K sq 
Kt to Kt 3 37 BtoR4 
PtoKB4 38 Bt. B 
PtoB4 39 K toR 2 
BtoKB3 40 QtoK2 
Q to B 2 41 Qt.Q 
PtoQR4 42 PtoR4 
P to Kt 4 (C) 43 K to Kt3 
P to Kt5 44 Kt to Q 2 (G) 
PtoRd 45 K to B3 - 

PRINCETON UNI 

LLwond 

Ssorsrsssast 

TOMRMWORS a 

ow bo 3 os HOO : 
C) a 

HOKOROU Ra whe 
rb al 
ona 
ok 
2 @& 

AB AZ 
° 

Saye ORne 
moo no 

VERSITY 

Mason's GAMES. 915 

White. Black. 
46 BtoQ3 P to Kt 4 
47 RPP Pir 
48 P to Kt3 Pt.P 
49 Pt. P K to Kt 3 
50 Kt to B sq KttoB3 
51 Kt to Kt 3 B to B sq 
52 Kt to B sq Kt to K 5 (H) 
53 Bt, Kt Pt. Beh 
54 K to K 3 (?) (1) Bto Kt 5 
55 Ktto Kt3(?)(J) BtoQ8 
56 Pto Bich K to Kt 2 
57 Kt t. P Bt. P 
58 PtoB6 ch K to B sy 
59 Ktt.QP Bt. R P 
60 K to Q2 Bt P 
61 K to B sq Bt P 
62 K to Kt sq P to Kt 6 
63 K to B sq P to Kt 7 ch 
64 K to Kt sq B to Kt sq 

Resigns. 

(A) Black’s position is not very 
comfortable—it is even more 
cramped than it should be from 
the nature of the defence chosen. 
But as it was the third in the 
“ Round” between the same players, 
the object was to have it decided, 
even at a little risk, as a draw might 
very well have turned out of no 
value whatever, as far as the gain- 

jug of any prize was concerned, 
(B) Though this Pawn proves 
somewhat troublesome to Black, 
the exchange of pieces relieves him 
in such measure as to be a pretty 

fair offset. 

(C) The last few moves have im- 
proved Black's situation consider. 
ably. 

(D) Ominous of a draw as these 
exchanges were, they could not be 
helped ; so important was it to 
control the oven file, or at least 
prevent the adversary from con- 
trolling it. 

(E) There seemed nothing better. 

(F) Hore, however, Black plays 
badly. 40....Q to R8 was the 
right move. 

(2) Necessary. It would not do 
to let the Knight in at K 4, 

(H) The only chance to win. It 
will be seen White must take the 
Knight, or he goes to B 6, and 
afterwards takes the R P. 

(I) Mr. Sellman erred here in 
not capturing the Pawn. His op- 
ponent could not check, play B to 
K 8, and take the R P, except at 
the loss of the game; because the 
White King would be able to 
reach Q B 2, imprisoning tho 
Bishop until the Knight could be 
brought up to attack him, when, of 
course he would be lost and the 
game with him. 

(J) Another error, and a fatal 
one. 55 Kt to Q 2 or K t. P 
would still have drawn easily. The 
finish is peculiar and will repay 
what little attention may be be- 
stowed upon it. 

Gume 191, played on the 8th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

Black. 

J. Masox. 
PtoK3 
PtoQ4 
KttoK B3 
Bto K 2 

White. 

5 Bt. Kt Bt.B 

6 PtwK5(A) BtoK2 

7 BtQ3 PtQB4 
8 Pt.P Bt.P 
9QtoRS5 Pto KKt3(B) 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

246 

LONDON CHESs 

White. Black. 
10 QtoR6 B to B sq 
11 Qt R3 KttoB3 
12 Pto B4 B to Kt 5 
13 Castles (C) Bt. Kt 
14 Pt. B QtoR4 
15 Kt toB3 Qt.BP 
16 Kt to Kt 5 Q to R 6 ch 
17 Kw Q2 QtoKt5ch(D) 
18 KtoK 3 PtoK R38 
19 K R to B sq (E) Q to B 5q 
20 KttoB3 BtoQ?2 
21 KRtoQKtsq Qw B4ech 
22 KtoK 2 Kt to Qsq(F) 
23 Q to Kt 3 Pto R3 
24 PtoK R4 B to Kt 4(G) 
25K RtoQBsy RtoQ Bog 
26 PtoRS Pie 
27 Qt. Kt7(H) Qto Bag 
28 Bt. Bch Pt. B 
29 Qt.Qch K t.Q 
30 Kt. P R to K Ktsq 
31 Kto B2 Rto BS 
32 P to Kt3 RtokRSd 
33 RK to Kt 2 K to Kt 2 
34 Rto K KR sy Kt to B38 
85 RLRP K Rw QRsq 
36 Rt. Kt P Rt.RP 
87 PtoKt4(1) Rt. Pch 
88 K to Kt 3 Rto R6(!) (J) 
39 P to Kt 5 Kt to Q 5 (!) 
40 Pt. P ch K to Kt 3 
41 RtoKtdch(K) Kt.P 
42 Rt. P Rt. Kt ch 
43 K to R4 R to R7 ch 
44 K to Kt 4 R to Kt 7 ch 
45 K to R 4 RtR 
46 Pt. R ch K to Kt 3 

Resigns 

(A) Inferior to 6 Kt to B 3, 
(See games Blackburne v. Mason, 
Winawer v. Mason, and others.) 

TOURNAMENT, 

(B) Perhaps Black plays too 
timidly just about here, making 
much more of White’s attack than 
was at all needful, It does seem 
that instead of 9.... Pto K Kt3, 
Q to Kt 3 might have been fairly 
ventured on. 

(C) Bold and good, though the 
way it happens to be so is not a 
little remarkable. 

(D) The Queen being in danger 
of surprise it was advisable to 
move her, otherwise Black gains 
nothing by these checks. 

(E) Notwithstanding the oddity 
of his position, considered as one of 
attack for the first player in the 
early part of a “ French,” Mr. Bird, 
though a Pawn to the bad, is in 
reality nearly if not quite on a 
level with his opponent. 

(F) An abject device, certainly, 
but any other way of maintaining 
the threatened Pawn would have 
been dangerous. 

(G) Weak, as appears 
White's admirable reply. 

(H) One of the lost Pawns is 
soon recovered now, and, generally, 
affairs tend more to the advautage 
of White. 

(1) A slip, doubtless. 37 Kt to 
K sq would have been better play. 

(J) After this move the game 
was virtually at an end, because 
the White Knight could not be 
saved, 

(K) 41 P to R 7 of course loses 
the King’s Rook clear, and the 
advanced Pawn afterwards. 

from 

inal Tre 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

cSosrls x 
SOVenwWo HE 
mop Na 

RE 
[ee to 

COs trans 
wessog& 
SHAROs 
we 
aa 

- - ea 
ym 

s 
Les) 

ft ed eel et hee ed fed fed 

NQVU5S+ OM RK OCUOnN OD tr foo we 
ss 

RO 

no We. 

OWAO UR 

18 K 

-_ 
© 
q 
ot ct 
see 
Onmy 
eo 

to 
= 
= 
=> 
So 

& 

tw t 

ao te 

Pete. S22 ia “ 
ag S — So 

ade oomtos utns 

es oe wg 

SRE SSSSSEREESESSRS 
DUO AOO ZOO TR VOR TO 
or 02 St on py OO BO 

Sesscssrs: 
Raed 

o 
Ss 
a 
td 
iv) 

~_ 
& 
— 

a 
— 

| 
—_ 

-_ 
e 
~" 

MANON’S GAMES, 247 

Game 192, played on the l4th of June. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

Black. White. Black. 
J. MonTIMER. 44 Qto BS Qt. Qch 
PtoK 4 45 R(K5)t.Q Kto B2’ 
Kt toQB3 46 PtoRS5 K to Kt 2 
BtoB4 47 K to R2 K to R3 
Kt to B3 48 Pt. P Pt.P 
PLP 49 KtoR3 RtoB2 
B to Kt 5 ch 50 Rto B6 K to Kt 2 
B t. B eh (A) 51. K to Kt 4 K to R38 
Castles 52 RtoK 6 Kt to Kt 2 (?) 
P to Q 8 (?) (J) 
Kt to K 4 53 RtoRsych KttoR4 
Pt. Kt 54 Rt. Kt ch Resigns 
Reto K aq (A) 7....Kt t. K P is also 
B to Q2 good, and very often played, 
Kt to Q3 though of course White regains 
QR to B sq the P through 8 B t. B, Kt t. B, 9 

C. 

Peand” (B) This may not be thought 
K RtoK s very strong. It was made with a 
B to Kt 4 view to preventing Black from 
PtoK B4 playing lis P to Q's fourth, as 
KtoRs perhaps he should have done when 
Ktt.B ‘4 he had the chance. 
Q to Kt 2 (BE) (C) And here it appears as if 12 
Kt to Q3 Q to K 2 was more to the purpose. 
Rto K 2 (D) More or less unnecessary, as 
Qto Bs White could hope to effect little or 
Pt Bo nothing by Kt to B 5. 
Hah, fog (E) 25....Kt to Q 5 would 
Rt x yt G have caused White some temporary 

: a )(@) inconvenience at least, even if it 
Be would not have forced him to be 
Q tP (?) (H) content with playing for a draw. 
K to Kt sq (F) To prevent the opposing Kt 
Q to B2 coming back, and so getting in to 
R to Q sq Q's fifth when his own Kt moves 
R to Q 2 NE gs 
Kt to Q3 (G) Quite in Mr. Mortimer’s 
Kt to K sq impetuous style. 
Q to K 3 (H) A mistake. Black actually 
Q to Kt 3 ch overlovked that he left bis own K’s 

| tre 

NIVERSITY 

I 

PRINCETON U 

248 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

P undefended, so that playing as 
he did was tantamount to throwing 
the game away. 

(I) 37 Qt. K B P would, per- 
haps, have been more effective still. 

(J) Immediately fatal, but, in 
the circumstances, the power of the 
exchange was too great to be suc- 
cessfully withstood, so that on the 
merits of the game Black must 
have yielded in the end. 

Game 193, played on the 18th of June. 

FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
Dr. Noa, J. Mason, 
1PtcoK4 P to K3 
2PoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 KttoQB3 KttoK B3 
4 Pt.P PtP 
5 BtoQ3 BtQ3s 
6 KttoBs PtoB3 
7 Castles Castles 
8 Rto K sy Bto K Kt 5 
9 PtoK R3 Bto R4 
10 Bto K Kt 5 Q Kt to Q2 
ll BtoB5 Q to B2 

White. Black. 
12 QtQ3 QR to K sq 
13 QBt. Kt Ktt. B 

14 Kt toQsq(?)(A) Bt. Kt 
15 Rt. RK Rt R 
Resigns. 

(A) One of those extraordinary 
blunders to which the greatest 
players are liable, and which en- 
psig Pi comment or criticism of 
any kind. 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

SECTION VIII. 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES. 

THE NOTES TO THIS SECTION, WHERE NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFIED, 

ARE BY THE EDITOR. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ao Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

A 
ss 
a2 OO 

& 

dee 
SSSSselrssas 
3 tg 
RRROF TOO 
hee FRNOw 
ee or oe 
& 

oO 
= 2 

ACR dD dod deo 

Ri 
2 

ete 
A™ oa 
ct 

SSH CSS! 
oo 

pure 
mo WD 

OS CO 6S CO NO 8O DO PS BO 0S OBS ND ND et et 
© wero 

SD Oo a So Oe ee 8 SO oe te OD OD OO ASOD OR Ce OD me ROC NTS OH ORD 

Prats Pros 
o be 

‘al 

ssersesrar 
RAK 
a "a 

WRU BN RNOVT CORR ew eOoOOth 
re) 

eowmaw & 

- 
a) 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES, 

ee eee 

Game 104, played on the 26th of April, 
SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

Black. 
H. E. Brap. 

ssssee 
a 
a= 
s 
& 

vi teas 
§ a7 
ee 

st gt ct 
o 

ot 
ww m 
~ 
Q 
—_ 

t 

RA RR UOROR TRORO DOOR 
eS&es 
5 A 
Ga fens 
5 

om 
Wes 
= 

esr Rs 
A 
co 

AR DOO ROon 
oo 
Se, = Hae] 
waa. WIS OO 
exuvwy Sut 
ro ap 
3 

ASS 
ses 

White. Black 
40 Rt RP Kt. P 
41 RtoR6 KtoQ4 
42 Rt.P RtoQR7 
43 RtoK Bsq PtoB5i 
44 Rto K R6 PtoB6 
45 Rt. P ch Kto Bd 
46 RtoR8 PtoB?7 
47 Rto BB ch K to Q6 

Drawn game. 

[The notes are by Mr. H. E. Bird.] 
(A) Ktt.Q P is now more gene- 
rally and justly preferred. 

(B) Kt to K Kt 5 used to be 
formerly in favour with several 
good players. Experience, however, 
appears to have proved that, by 
replying with Kt to K R 3, defend- 
ing B P, Black gets quite an even 
game in any case, and a slight 
advantage when the P is captured, 
as it frequently was. For example: 

5 KttoK Kt5 KttoKR3 
6 Ktt.BP Kt t. Kt 

7 Bt. Kt ch Kt.B 

8 Qto Rdch P to K Kt 3 
9 QuB Pt Q4, 

and I should take Black’s game for 
choice. It is clear that White has 
nothing to compensate for first 
move, 

(C) Zukertort considers that Kt 
to K B 3 can now be played by 
Black without disadvantage. The 
game then appears to become very 
like a form of the Giuoco Piano in 
which the second player's position 
is slightly preferred by many ex- 
cellent judges. The move in the 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

252 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

text—B to K Kt 5—was favoured 
by Anderssen, and I like it best, 
because, perhaps, more suited to 
iny style. 

(D) Black has gained a little 
time by his last two moves. 

(E) If P to K Kt 3 had been 
pave by Black, Q to K 6 would 
ve been a good reply. 

(F) Black gains a P by this, but 
at a sacrifice of the little advantage 
in position which he had obtained. 

(G) P to Q 4 would, [ think, 
have been better play. K to B 2 
appears also a sound, sterling 
move, 

(H) B to K 6, though tempting, 
would lead to loss of time and be 
bad play, as the B P could not 
safely be taken. K to K 2, how- 
ever, would, I think, bave been 

much better play than R to K R 3, 
the move 

(I) ey careless play. R from 
B3 should have gone to B2. Black 
would then have had a decided 
advantage. R to Q sq, for his next 
move, with the object of playing to 
Q 7, would require attention, and 
Black’s Pawns on the Queen's side 
should ultimately, with judicious 
management, secure him victory. 
Moving the wrong R was as un- 
fortunate as it was unaccountable : 
it enabled Rosenthal to advance 
K's P with advantage, which he 
could not otherwise have done, and 
entirely changed the aspect of the 
game. 

(J) The sacrifice of the exchange 
was the most prudent course under 
the circumstances, The remainder 
of the game was very interesting, 
and well played on both sides, 

Game 195, played on the 16th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White Black. 

H. E. Brap. S. RosewrHan, 
1PtoK B4 PtoQ4 
2PtoK3 PtoK3 

8 KttoK B3 KttoK B3 
4 Bto Q 38 (?) KttoB3(P)(A) 
5 Castles Pto K 4 (? (B) 
6PtP Kt to Kt 5 
7 Bto Kt 5 BtoQ2 

8 Bt. Kt Pt B 

9 PtoQ4(C) B to K 2 
10 KttoB3 PtoK B4 
1l Kt to K 2 Bto K 3 
12 PtoQR4 P to Kt 4 
138 QtcQ3 Castles 
14PtoRKR3 Kt to R3 
15 BtoQ2 Q to K sq 
16 Kt to R2 PtoQB4 
17 Kt to Kt 3 PtQBS5 
18 QtoK2 R to Kt sq 
19 Rto R2 PtoB4 

White. Black 

20 BtoB3 PtP 
21 Bt. P Pio R3 
22 QtoR5 Q to Kt 3 

93 Qt. Qch Pt.Q 
Kt to B2 

26 Pt. Bt. P 
27 KttoB3 BtoK 2 
28 PtoR5 Kt to B3 

29 B to Kt 6(?) (E) Kt to Kt 5 
30 Kt (K 2) toQ4 Ktt.R 

31 Ktt. B K R to Bsq 
32 Kt (B3)toQ4 Kt to Kt 5 
33 KttoB4 B to Kt 4 
34 Kt (Q 4) toK 6 Bt. Kt 

35 Kt t. B K toR2 
36 PtoB8 Ktto B38 
37 RtoB3(F) Kt t. P 

38 Rto R38 ch K to Kt 2 

39 K to Bsq(?)(G) Kt to B3 

| tre 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES. 2538 

White. Black. 
40 Ktto K6ch(H) K to B2 
41 KttoB7 R to K R sq 
42 Ktt.P Rt. R 
43 Pt. R Rto K Raq 
44 KttoB7(I) RtP 
45 K to Kt 2 R to R sq 
46 Ktt. P KtoK3 
47 Kt to B7 ch K to Q2 
48 PtoR6 RtoQ B sq 
49 Kt toQ5 K to Q3 
50 Kt to Kt 4 R to Q R sq 
51 BtoQ4 Kt t. Kt 
52 Pt. Kt Rt. P 
53 Kt B3 RtoR5 
54 P to Kt 5 R to Kt 5 
55 K to B 4(?) Rt. P at Kt 5 
56 K to Kt 5 K to Q 4(!)(J) 
57 KtoB4 R to Kt 2 
58 Bto BG R to Kt 3 
59 BtoB3 R to K 3 
60 Bto Kt 7 R to K 5 ch 
61 KtoB3 P to Kt 4 
62 BtoRG P to Kt 5 ch 
63 K to K 2 RtoK3 
64 B to Kt 7 PtoBSd 
65 BtoQ4 K to K 5 (!) 
66 BtoBSd P to Kt 6 
67 Pt. P Kt. P ch 
68 KtoQ2 - Pito Kt 7 
69 B to Kt sq K to B6 
70 KtoB3 RtoK8 
71 BtoQ4 R toK 6 ch (1) 

Resigns. 

[The notes are by Mr. H. E. Bird.) 

(A) PtoQB4 would be much 
more forcible. 

(B) This Pawn was lost by 
Rosenthal under a misconception, 
and he has thus early an inferior 
game. 

(C) White has retained his Pawn 
and hasan excellent position, which 
he still further improves during the 

next few moves. 
(D) A very strong move, which, 

with due care subsequently, should 
insure a certain victory for White. 

(E) Axsilly blunder. KttoK B 
4 at once would have been almost 
decisive for White. Black could 
not then afford to play Kt to Q Kt 
5, or to lose his Q P. He had ap- 
parently nothing better than Kt to 
Q 84. 

ere Kt to Q sq 
30 B to Kt 6 Bto B2 

31 R to Q Kt sq 

32 Kt t.QP 

Black’s position is hopeless. Or: 
29 KttoB4 Kt to Q Kt 5 
80 Ktt. B Ktt. R 

31 Ktt. R K t. Kt 

32 B to Kt 6 Kt to Kt 5 
33 Kt to Q 4 K to B2 

34 R to K B3, with a winning ad- 

vantage in foree and position. 

(F) Kt t Q P. The simplest 
move was, as frequently happens, 
really the safest and best. 

(G) B to Q 4 would still have 
given White a good game. His 
play at this point can only be 
described as whimsical in the ex- 
treme. Suppose : 

39 BtoQ4 R to K sq 
40 R to Kt3 K to B2 
41 Bt. Kt Rt. B 

42 Ror Ktt. Kt P Rt. Kt P 
43 Rt. RP. 

(H) Again, at this move White 
would have acted prudently in cap- 
turing Q P. The weakness then 
of Black’s Q R P and Q B P would 
have still left White with a very 
good game to play. 

(I) If: 

44 K to Kt 2 Kt t. P (!) 

(J) From this point Rosenthal 
plays the end-game admirably. 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

254 

White. 

A. SaLiman. 

B 
On 
> = 
ae 
oro 

-Ses 
oc 

fof el--L-i-l--1- A 
oe 
One auwro 

ssf 

mR 
OO rye Dod 

CONAMTEWNHOTHONIA Rome 
3 
~ 
— 

Prt et et pet tree feet feed fed ell fa 
-ohe-B--BaeB-~{ @he-l BY Bisel e-Bae 

sg? Et gh St gm ae ct gt 
WY yO 
Lam 

no oo 
i 
AR 
Ss 
Sey 
a ee 

o «+ 
_ 
al 

= 

—_ 

BAR Uae 
ssssrs, 
OO st oe bt oe tg 
FT roo _ oo oo 
ad co 
oo 

s* 

White. 

8, RoseytHat. 

Queovws 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 196, played on the 27th of April. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
Black. White. Black, 
8. Rosewriat, 31 KtoB3 K toB2 
PtoK4 32 K tu Kt 4 K to Kt 3 
Q Kt to B3 33 Kto BS KtoB4 
Kt to B3 34 PtoKt4ch KtoK3 
Pt.P Drawn game. 
Kt to K 5 , 
Kt t. Kt (A) (A) 6 Bto K 2 is safer. 
Kt to B4 (B) This loses a P at least. 
to K 2 (C) 18 Q to K 5 would have 
toQ BS maintained the P, with the better 
toQ 4(7)(B) game. 
ie sis (D) There seems no objection to 
toB4 poying 15 Kt to R 3, securing the 
astles 
Ree BtoB3 
a+ 16 Qto Kt 4 Kt to K 5 
EVO 17 Qt.Q Rt.Q 
KRtK 18 P to B 3, and White can main- 
BtLB ” tain his extra P without disadvan- 
Kt to Q6 tage of position. 
Bto B4ch (E) By all the exchanges that 
Kt t.P follow Black insures a drawn game, 
Rt Kt but 16 B to K 5 seems to have 
Rto K 2 many chances of complications 
BtR advantageous to the stronger 
BtoB4 player. 
B to Kt 5 (F) If 24 Rt. P, R to R 4 
K to Q2 would give Black the advantage. 
R to K sq The game is now resolved into an 
Kt. R early draw. 

—— 

Game 197, played on the 28th of April. 

PETROFF. 

Black. White. Black. 
A. SELLMAN. 7 Castles Castles 
PtoK 4 8 PwQB4 Kt to K B3 
K Kt to B3 9PtoB5(B) Btok2 
PtoQ3 10 Kt to K 5 PtoQ Kt 3(!) 
Kt t.P (C) 
P to Q 4 11 Pt.P RPtpP 
Bi to Q 8 (A) 12KttoQB3 PwB4 

| 

i 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

‘al 
oo 

B ye py pre 

rca ee 
—| 

Pao OnOW 
c 

AD ROONWOW 
TSPSSSSt: 

s 
<) 
5 

co wie 

TB 

7 

a ee 
SRESSMS SHIGA ROH SS ON SSMS SS 
oe 
SSSSSSSS os eS Seger 
po po co 2 noo 2 Meo 

RO RIOR Ot 
ROOM HOO RCO nyo 

oe 
ss 

woe 

~ 
ww 
— 

re 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES. 255 

Black. White. Black. 
B to Kt 2 47 KtoQ3 K to B4 
yc tds Resigns. 

t. Kt (A) 6.... B to K 2 is con- 
8 a sidered best. 
Qt.B (B) This is premature. 
P to Kt 3 (D) (C) Well devised. White can- 
PtoKR not safely attempt to block the 
Q RtoQ Baq game by 11 P to B 6, 
K to Kt 2 (D) Black has played with great 
K R to K sq judguient, and has now an excellent 
RtkK game. 
P to B5 (F) E) An incomprehensible niove, 
Qt.BP losing a P without any object. 
e te 5 F) This move wins the Pawn in 
Pt hs the safest way, but 25 Q t. B P 
Rtok eq equally wins. 
BtR 26 Kt t. R P ch (1) 
Btok4 If the Kt were taken, White mates. 
Bt. Kt 26.... K to Kt sq 
K to B 3 27 Qt. Q Bt. Q 
P to Kt 4 ch 22 Rto K2 (best) BtoRS 
K toK 4 29 PtoK Kt 3 (best) Pto Q 5 dis ch 
B to Q2 30 KtoKtsq BtoBé 
Pto B4 31 RwQ2 B t. Kt 
P to B Bch 32 Pt. B KR to B8ch 
B to B 4ch 33 K to B2 Rt Qs 
K to Qs 34 RtR Bt.R 
K to B4 35 K to K sq B to BG 
P to Q5ch 36 K to Q2 K to B sq 
K to Kt 5 37 Bto B4 Bto K 5 
BLP 38 Bt Q3 P to B4, 
BtoQ 2 and must finally win, 

—_—_——e 
Game 198, played on the Ist of May. 
FOUR KNIGHTS’. 

Black. White. Black. 
S. Wivawre, 10 Pt QB3 Pt.Q3 
Pto K4 11 Qto B4 Pt. P 
Kt to Q@B3 12 QPtP BtoR 4 
Kt to B8 13 BtoQ3 PtoB4 
Bto Kt 5 14 BtoQ2 QtoB3s 
Castles 15 K R to Ksq(A) Bto Q 2 
Kt t. Kt 16 QRtoBs Q BR to K sq 
Kt toQ 5 17 P to Q Kt B to Kt 3 
Pt. Kt 18 P to Kt 5 Rto K 4 
PtoQB+4 19 PteB4 K Rto K sq 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

256 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
20 Rto K Bsq B to Q sq (B) 
21 BtoB3 P to Kt 4 
22 QtoQ2 QtoR3 
23 Bt. RK PtsB 
24QRtoKsq PtoK5 
25 BtoB2 Bto B2 
26 Pto Kt3 BtoK 4 
27 PtoKR4(!) PtoK 6(') 
28 Qt. P PtoBd 
29 Pt. Kt P Qt..P 
30 QtoK4(!)(C) Rto K 2 
31 PtoQ6() Bt.QP 
32 Qt.Q KtP Pt? 
33 QtoR8ch B to K sq (D) 
34 Q to Q5ch Qt. Q 
35 Pt.Q Pto Kt7(?)(E) 
36 Kt. P Bt. P 
37 RtoK Ktsq BtoK 7 (?) 
38 P to B3 (?) (F) K to B sq 
39 R to K Rsq PtoBd 
4) Bt. P Rto KKt2 ch 
41 K to B2 Bto Q6 
42 Bt. B BtoB4ch 
43 Rto K 3(?)(G) Pt. B 
44 R to Q sq R to Q Kt 2 
45 RtoQ2 R to Kt 8 
46 PtoB4 Rt QB8 
47 K to B38 Bt. R 
48 Kt. B K to K 2 
49 Rt. P K to Q3 
50 KtoK4(!)) PtoR4 
51 K to B 5 (!) Rto B7 
52 PtoR3 R to B sy 
53 K to Kt 6 R to Kt sq ch 
54 K toB?7 R to Q Kt sq 
55 Pto Bd PtoR5 
56 PtoBG R to Kt 6 
57 R to Q sq Rt. P 
58 KtoB8 RtoK B6 
59 PtoB?7 PtoR6 
60 R to Q 4 KtoB4(?)(H) 
61 P to Q 6 (!) Kt.R 
62 PtoQ7 K to B6 
63 P queens Pto R7 

t. P ch 

64 pd (?)() R 

(A) Up to this point the game 
is a model of this form of Opening, 
White maintaining a slight ad- 
vantage in position. 

(B) Black evidently determines 

on giving up the exchange for the 
attack he caleulates on obtain- 
ing. 20 Q to Kt 3 would have 
given him a safe game, with the 
command of the vacant file; but 
his Bishops would have been some. 
what hampered. 

(C) This portion of the game is 
very lively, and admirably played 
by both. 

(D) Foreed: if K moves, R t. R 
ch, and the attack is quite broken. 

(E) This was mere desperation. 

(F) When it is known that this 
move was made immediately after 
the adjournment, and that the 
astounding blunder of 37 B to K 7 
was Winawer's recorded move, and 
that Rosenthal perpetrated his still 
more wonderful reply, when fresh at 
the board, and with ample time for 
reflection, it may be set down as a 
curiosity of Tournament play. Of 
COUrsE : 

38 Rt B Rt. R 
39 K to B 3 dis. ch, wins a piece 
and the game off hand. 

(G) Also inexplicable. K to B sq 

is absolutely without danger, and 

reserves the exchange and passed 
, Which must win. 

(H) 60 P to R 7 was the proper 
moye, and would have insured a 
draw. 

(I) Once more and finally throw- 
ing away the victory. 64 Q to 
R 5 ch wins by force, If 64 K 
to Kt 6, 65 Q to Q 5 ch, and on 
K moving to Kt 7 or R 6, guard- 
ing P, Qt. R, and forces exchange 
of Queens. If: 

64 .... K toKt7 
65 Q to Q 2 ch KtoR6 
66 Q to B sq ch K moves 

67 K to K 8 wins 

As it is Winawer draws by the 
immediate sacrifice of R. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES. 257 

Game 199, played on the 2nd of May. 
STEINITZ GAMBIT. 

White. Black. 
8S. Wrvawer. S. Rosenraat. 
1PtoKk4 P to K4 
2 KttoQB3 Kt tQB3 
3 PteoB4 Pt. P 
4PtoQ4 QtoR5ch 
5 Kt K 2 PtoQ4 
6 Pt. P Q to K 2 ch 
7KtB2 Q toR 5 ch 
8 KtoK2 Qto K2ch 
9 KtoB2 

Drawn game. 

[Concerning this game, which 
otherwise would require no com- 
ment, Mr. Blackburne made a 
formal complaint to the Committee 
-charging both players with trans- 
gressing the 15th Rule of the Tour- 
nament, a charge which the Com- 
mittee refused to entertain. It is 
sufficient to point out that Mr. 
Steinitz had at this time lost two 
games in endeavouring to evade 
the perpetual check in this Open- 
ing. It was impossible for Mr. 

Winawer to know that M. Rosen- 
thal would play the form of the 
Opening et to this early draw, 
and when he had so played it was 
not to be expected that Mr.Winawer 
would run the great risk of a lost 
game to avoid the draw. The 
Steinitz Opening certainly affords 
the second player, content with a 
draw aud anxious for a day’s rest, 
the opportunity to secure his ob- 
ject very easily, but to charge 
players with entering into a com- 
pact on such grounds is a monstrous 
assumption. I regret to say that the 
third game between these very even 
antagonists, which also resulted in 
a draw, was not supplied to me by 
the copyist employed for this work, 
and I have been unable to make up 
for the omission. In the course of 
this game M. Rosenthal failed to 
take advantage of one winning op- 
portunity, a misfortune he was un- 
able to retrieve, and the final draw 
counted to each,—Eprror. | 

a 

Game 200, played on the 7th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
8. RosENriat. J. Mortimer. 12 Kt (Kt 5) to K 4P a 
1PtK4 Ptok4 13 Kt t. P Kt t.Q Kt 
2KttKB8 KttQB: 14 Bt. Kt Bt.P 
3 Bto Kt 5 Kt toB3 15 Bt. P ch Kt.B 
4PtoQ3 Kt to K 2 16 Q to B3 ch K to Kt sq 
5 Kt to B3 Kt to Kt 3 17 Qt.B K to R 2 (B) 
6 Castles PtB3 18 Ktto Kt5ch Resigns. 
a wes Fak eh (A) The retreat seems to be 
9 PtoKR3 BtoQ2(?)(A) ees 
10 KttoK Kkt5 PtoQ4 D sive BtoR4 
11 Pt.P PtoK R3 10 Pto Kt4 Kt t.P 
8 
reg 1 ri i 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

258 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

ll Pt. Kt Bt. P, 
threatening to recover the piece by 
Kt to R 4, which I fail to see how 
White can prevent. Of course if 
12 Bto Kt 5 Pto B3, 
the attempt to win the Q B would 
therefore result only in the loss of 

two Pawns. Retreating to K 3 
were better than to Q 2, which 
clearly loses a Pawn. 

(B) It requires good luck as well 
as talent to fall into so superb a 
blunder as this. He must now lose 
his Q or be mated. 

Game 201, played on the 11th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
A. B, Sxipworrs. S. RosentHan 
1 KttoK B3 PtoQ4 
2PtkK3 PtoK 3 
3 PteQ Kt3 KttoK B3 
4 BtoQ Kt2 Bto K 2 
5 Pte QB4 Castles 
6 BtoK2 PtoQkt3 
7 Castles Bto Q Kt 2 
8 QtoQB2(A) QKttoQ2 
9 KttoK 5(?) Ktt. Kt 
10 Bt. Kt BtoQ3 
1lPtKB4 Bt. B 
12 Pt.B Kt to Q 2 
13 PtoQ4 Q to K Kt 4 
14 RtoK B3(B) Pt.P 
15 Rto K Kt 3 rir 
16 Pt.P Q to Q sq 
17 KttoQ Bs PtoQR3 
18 BwQ3 PtoK Kt3 
19 Rto K B sq PtoQB4 
20 A pee RtoQR2 
21 QRto K B3(C)Pt. P 
22 Pt.P PwoKB4 
23 Pt. P ep. Kt t. P 
24 QtoQs B to Q 4 
25 Ktt.B Kt t. Kt 
2 BtP(y(D) RtR 
27 Rt. BR Pt B 
28 Qt. Pch R to Kt 2 
29 Qt. P ch K to R sq 
30 Qto R6ch K to Kt sq 
31 Q to K 6 ch K to R sq 
32 RtoR3ch(E) RtoR2 
33 Q to K 5 ch Kt to B 3 (F) 
34 RtoK B3 RtoK B2 
35 PtoK Kt4 Kto Kt sq 

Black. 

to K Kt 5ch(G) K to B sq 
toK R6ch KtoK sq 
B4(!) QtoQ4(H) 
Kt8ch K to Q 2 (I) 
7 ch K to K sq 

Aro 

(A) White is apparently de- 
signedly avoiding the ordinary 
move of P to Q 4, but does not 
thereby improve his development. 

(B) 14 Q to Q 2 was the only 
move to escape the loss of a P, but 
Mr. Skipworth was clearly counting 
on a counter-attack, 

(C) The object of this is not 
clear, but exchanging Bishops, fol- 
lowed by Kt to K 4, would have 
led to no advantage, as Black 
would reply by R to B 2, with a 
good game. 

(D) A perfectly sound sacrifice, 
which insures the draw or recovery 
of the P. 

(E) White sees his way to some 
winning chances, with the draw 
always in hand; he therefore gives 
up the perpetual check. 

(F) If K moves White has at 
least a perpetual check with the R, 
which Black cannot avoid except 
with the loss of the game, e.g. - 

K to Kt sq 

B3 wees 
34 RtoKt3ch KtoBasq 

| 

if 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES, 259 

35 R to B3 ch R to B2 (?) 
36 QR 8 ch, and wins. 

(G) 36 P to K Kt 5 would 
enable Black to win. 

S8 saac Kt to R2 

37 P to Kt 6 R to Kt 2 

38 Q to K 6 ch K to R sq 
wins. 

If: 

38 R to Kt 3 KttoBsq wins. 

(H) The best move, 38 Q toQ 2 

enables White to obtain the supe- 

riority. 

39 Q to Kt 8 ch QtoQsq(best) 
t.Q 

40 Qt. Q ch K 
41 Pto Kt 5 R to Kt 2 
42 Rt. Kt Rt. P ch 

43 K to B 2, better game. 

(I) Unless Black accept the per- 
petnal check he falls into some 
variation cognate with the pre- 
ceding, after the exchange of 
Queens, 

Game 202, played on the 18th of Muy. 
FOUR KNIGHTS’. 

White Black. 
8. Rosenrmat, A. B. Sxrpwortn. 
1PtK4 P to K 4 
2 KtteQB3 KttoK B$3 
3 KttoB3 Kt to B3 
4 Bto Kt 5 B to Kt 5 
5 Castles Castles 
6 Kt toQ5 Kt t. Kt 
7 Pt. Ke Kt toQsd 
8 Kt t. Kt Pt. Kt 
9 Qto Kt4 P toQ B3(A) 
10 Qt.QP BtoQ 
ll BtoK2 QtoB2 
12 PtoK Kt3 BtoK4 
13 QtoK 4 P to K B4(?) 
14 QwQB4 K to R sq 
15 Pt Q4 P to Q Kt 4(?) 
16 Q to Kt 4 (!) BwQ3 
17 BtoK B4(B) Rto B3(C) 
18 Bt. B Rt. B 
19QtoB5(!) BtoKt2 
20 BtoB3 Rto K Bsq(?) 
21 QRt K sq PtooK Rs 
92 Pt. P Pt. P 
23 KR to K 6G (!) RtoB3 
24 Rt. R(Q 3) Qt. R 
95 Qt. Q Rt.Q 
26 RtoK sq(!)(D) K to R 2 
27 PtoB3 PteoQR4 
28 RtoK8 K to Kt 3 
29 RtoQ Kt 8 R to Q 2 

White. Black. 
30 PtoOK R4 RtoQB2 
31 KtoKt2(?) KtoB3 
32 PtoRS K to K 2 
33 K to B sq B to B sq 
34 KtoKsq(E) BtoQ2 
35 K toQ2 PtoR5 
36 PtoR3 BtoK 3 
37 KtoK 3 BtoQ2 
38 K toB4 K to B3 
39 R to Kt 6 K to K 2 
40 KtoK 5 R to B sq 
41 Rto Kt7 K to K aq 
42 KtoQ6é R to Q sq 
43 Bt. P Resigns. 

(A) There is nothing to com- 

nsate for the Pawn thus sacri- 
ced. 9 P to Q B 4, as played 
by Winawer in this position, seems 
to be the correct move. 

(B) All this is very lively, and 
admirably played by M. Rosenthal. 
(C) Changing Queens at once 

were a little better, though White 
always preserves his advantage. 

(D) M. Rosenthal plays with re- 
markable vigour throughout this 
game. If now: 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

| rer Rt. P (E) Black is so helplessly shut 
27 RtoK7 B to R 3 (best) up that White has time to bring 
28 Rt. RP RtoR5 his King to the attack of the weak 
29 Bt. P Rt. P point, which his opponent can do 
30 Bt. P, and wins, nothing to frustrate. 
Game 203, played on the 15th of May. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

White. Black. White. Black. 

Dr. Noa. S. RosENtTHaL. 39 PtoR 4(PF) RtR 
1PtoKk4 P to K 4 40 Pto B6ch KtoB2 
2K KttoB3 Q Kt to B3 41 RR Kt to Q 6 ch 
3 Bto Kt5 kt to B3 42 KtoK2 Kt to Kt 5 
4PtoQs BtoB4 43 Rto QB se R to B sq 
51 KttoB3 PtoQ3 44 Kt to B2 ‘) K to K 3 
6 Bto Kt 5 Ptok RS 45 Kt to K 4 KtP 
7 Rtokh4 P to Kt 4 46 PtoB7 (!)(G) RtoB sq 
8 Bto Kt 3 PtoR3 47 Rt. P ch Kt to Q 4 (HA) 
9 Bt. Kt (A) Y4ie 48 Kit. P K toQ3 
10 Pio Q4 Pt. P 49 RtoRS Kt to Kt 5 
ie B47 BtoK Kt5(B) 50 RtoK BS KtoK2 
12 PtoB3 B to Q2 51 Rto K 5 ch K to B38 
13 Castles Kt to R 4 f2 PtoB4 Rt. P (1) 

14 BtoB2 Castles 63 Ktt. R K t. Kt 
15 Ktfr.B3 to K2 QtoB3 54 RtoK RS K to Kt 3 
16 PtoBs B to Kt 3 55 Rt. P KtoB4 
17 BtoK 3 Q to K 2 56 RtoR8S Kt.P 
18 Q to Q2 Q R to K sq 57 Rt QKt8 Kt to B38 
19 Pto K Kt4 Kt to Kt 2 58 R to Kt 6 Ktto Kk 4 
20 Kt to Kt 3 Pt.Q4 59 Rt. P K to K 4 
2) Ktfr.Q4toB5 Bt. Kt 60 Rto K 6 KioQ 4 
22 Kt Pt. B PBs bl Rt. Kt Resigns. 

: to K s¢ to Q3 
i = 6 4, ' 2 to Hr (A) Like Winawer, Dr. Noa is 
25 BtoB2 PtoB3 never loth to exchange his B for Kt 
26 P to Kt 4 PtoK R4 in such positions. 9 B to R 4 
27 Pt. BP Bt.P seems better, as White could hardly 
298 Bt. B Qt. Beh advance his Pawns on each side. 
29 QtoQ4 Q t. Q (?)(C) (B) This is mere loss of time, as 
30 Pt.Q Pt RS the attacked Bishop must return to 
31 Kt to R sq (D) KttoR4 Q 2. 
32 Kt to B2 Et to BS (0) This exchange is certainly 
33 Kt to Kt 4 R to Kt sq Wisabl = Niven White 
94 PtoK5(!) Pt. P(?)(E) fan “dab - a ee ite a 
a5 Pt. P K to Kt 2 ormidable cluster of central Pawns. 
36 Rto Ktsq (!) PtoQs5 (D) Intending to post him at 

7 KtoB2 PtoB4 Kt 4, where he will be far more 
sa KRtQsq Rto Kt4 formidable than Black’s Kt at B 5. 

riginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES. 261 
(E) Again unadvisable: Black (H) If: 
cannot tuke the B P, and the two ee K to K 3 
advanced passed Pawns must be- 48 Kt t. Pch KtoQ3 
come very dangerous. 49 Rto BS K to K 2 
50 Rto K5 ch K toQ2 

(F) This secures the command 
of the open file for his Rook. 

(G) White has managed this 
very adroitly. He will be able 

(I) He has nothing better, as 

White threatens ; 

to support this advanced Pawn 53 Rto Bs K to Kt 2 
and get free play for his Rook, 54 KttoK och Kt P 
whilst Black’s Rook will be oc- 55 Kt. Reh K t. Kt 
cupied, o6 RtooK RS 
— +o 
Gume 204, played on the 28th of May. 
RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 

3. Wuyawer. 3. Rogextnan. 43 2 fe Bb : 2 = te sq 
1PtK4 Pt K 4 . ti ok 2 

2K Kt to B3 Q Kt to B3 30 R to Kt2 Q Rtok Kt sy 
3 Bto Kt5 Pt QR3 3l Bto Kt 3 PtoK R4(B) 
4BtoR4 Kt to B 3 32 RPtP Rt. P 

5 Bt. Kt (A) QPtB 33 Rt. P R(K KRsq)t.R 
6 Pt Q3 Bt Q3 34 Pt. R Q to R6 ch 
7 Castles Castles 35 K to Kt sq t. P 

8 Bto Kt 5 PtoR3 36 Qt Q Kt.Q 

9 BtoR4 QtoK2 37 RtoR2 Rt. R 
10 Kt to B3 Q B to Kt 5 38 Kt. BE P to Kt 4 
11PtoKR3 Bt.Kt 39 KtoRS K wo B2 

12 Qt. B P to K Kt 4 40 K to Kt 4 KtoK 3 

13 Bto Kt3 Kt to K sq phe Ta tote 

14 BtoR2 Kt to Kt 2 oe Bag 3 
15 PtoKKt4 PtoB3 Ae ds pene 
16 Kt to K 2 QtoK3 pay ee : oe 
17 Kt to Kt3 Q RB to Q sq pee — LP 

18 K to R.sq PtoQB4 6 Ft. to Kt 
19 P to Kt3 PtoB3 Drawn game. 
20 Q Rto Q sy R to Q2 (A) Why he should have wasted 
21 RtoK Ktsg KRtoB2 his last move, if he meant to 
22 PtKR4 R to B sq change, is inexplicable. 
23 BR to Kt 2 Q to K sq (B) Nothing could be more 
24 QRto K Ktsq K to B2 dreary or purposeless than the 
25 KttoB5 Kt t. Kt moves up to this point. This move 
26 Qt. Kt R to K R sq seems like a brief gleam of enter- 
27 Rto Kt3 Qto K 3 prise, but there is nothing in it. 

PRINCETO 

r | Fry 

UNIVERSITY 

262 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Game 205, played on the 30th of May. 

FRENCH GAME. 

Black. White. Black. 

S. RosgexTHa.. S. WLNAWER. 36 PtoK R4 BtooBé 

1PtcoK4 PtoK3 37 BtoB3 R to Q2 

2PwQ4 PtoQ4 38 BtoK 2 Rt Qs 

3 PtP rir 39 BtoB3 RtoQ2 

4K KttoB3 KKttoB3 40 Bto K 2 PtoK Kt4 

5 BtoQ3 BtoKt5ch(A) 41 BPt.Pch PtP 

6 Pt B3 BtoQ3 42 Pt. P ch K t. P 

7 Castles Castles 43 KtoB3 Rw K2 

8 RtoKs Bto K Kt 5 44 RtoB3 RtoK 5 

9 QKttog2 Q Kt to Q 2 45 Rito B2 K to B38 
10 Kt to B sq PtoB3 46 K to Kt 2 R to K 2 
ll KttoK3 Bt. Kt 47 BtoB4 RtoK 6 
12 Qt.B R to K sq 48 RtoK 2 
13 Rio K2 P to K Kt 3 Drawn game. 
Pe OTR. "a rn oi 2 (A) One of Winawer’s vagaries, 
16 BtoK3 R to K sq with the sole object of losing a 
17 Qt B3 Kt to K 5 move: 
18 P to K Kt 3 PtoK B4 (B) Offering the Pawn with the 
19 PtoB4 Q to Q sq object of getting the Black Queen 
m4 ae . 6 t fe x out of play. 

to sq to Kt + . 

2 Bo B2) Guaer ——C) Zhe supe i rly thi 
94 RioB2 Qt. KES — 
25 K to Kt 2 KttoB5 ; (D) 29 Q toQ sq might be better; 
26 Kt to Q 2(!) (C)Kt(B 5) t. Kt it would force Black to play the 
27 Bt. Kt K to Kt 2 King back to Knight, when White 
28 B to B sq Kt to B3 would play 30 Q to Q 3, as in the 
29 QtcQ3(D) QtoR8 text, and would afterwards take 
80 Q to Kt 5 Rto K 2 the Queen’s Pawn checking, and 
81 BLP QtQP so get a slight advantage. 
32 Bto Kt 2 Q to Kt 3 (E) The game is now drawn, as 
33 Qt.Q Pt.Q the extra doubled Pawn is evidently 
34 Bt.Ktch(E) Kt.B of no avail with the Bishops of 
85 PtoB4 PtoR3 different colours. 

)rvour 1 re L 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. Black. White. Black. 
S. Wivawenr. S. Rosexrma. 33 Kt to R 2 Rt. R eh 

1PtoK 4 PtoK 4 34 KttR QtoKt 8(!)(1) 

2BtoB4(A) BtoB4 Resigns. 

3 PwQ3 PtoQ3 . 

‘ (A) The only specimen of the 
tates A, a ibe -; @) Bishop's Opening throughout the 
6 BtoK Kt5(C)PtoKR3 Tournament. 

7 BtoK3 B to Kt 3 (B) The game has assumed the 

8 Castles Castles ordinary form of Giuoco Piano. 

9 PtKR3 Kt to K 2 (C) A favourite weakness with 
10 Pwo QR4 PtwB3 Winawer; it can only result in loss 
1l PtoQ Kt4 Kt to Kt 3 of time or an unfavourable cx- 
12 PtoR5(D) BtoB2 change. 

13 Bto Kt3 PwQs (D) The advance of these Pawns 
14 Pt.P Pt.P in this way is rarely productive of 
16 KttoR3 P to Qi 7 
17 Bto Bsq PtoR3 (E) Black has now by far the 
18 PtoBd Kt toQ 4 best of the opening. 
19 Bt. Kt Bt.B (F) However White play it is 
20 R to K sq P to B4(E) impossible to avoid some loss. ; 
21 Kt to B4 QtwB3 (G) Black threatens to win a 
22 B to Kt2 Q R to K sq clear piece by taking Knight with 
23 Q Kt toQ 2 Kt to BS Pawn, Mr. Winawer must have 
24 Kt to B sq Q to Kt 3 felt that his game was hopeless 
25 KttoKt3(F) Ktt. Kt P(!) when he tried this resource. 
26 K t. Kt PtoBSd “ : 
27 RtoK4(@) BtLR CH) If 27 R to Kaq, Rt. Kt ("), 
28 Pt.B Pt. Kt winning another clear piece. 
29 Qto Kt3ch KtoR sq (I) Winning a clear piece: 
30 Pt.P QtP Rosenthal has made the most of 
31 RtoBsq(H) Rt B3 his opportunities, and played admi- 
82 K to Kt sq Q Rto K Bsq rably throughout this little game. 
—— oe 
Game 207, played on the 29th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 
White. Black. White. Black. 

S. RosENTIMAL. Da. Noa 56 KttoB3 Bw Q3 

1PtoK 4 PteK3 6 BtoQs Castles 

2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 7 Castles PtoB3 

8 KttoQB3 K Kt toB3 8 Kt to K 2 Qt B2 

4PtP PtP 9 Ktto Kt3 B to Kt 5 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES. 263 

Game 206, played on the 6th of June. 
BISHOP’S OPENING. 

| 

I 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

t 
18 Bt 

38 Bto K Kt 4 
39 Pto BG 
40 Bto Bo ch 

White. 
J, Moxrimun. 

LONDON 

Black. 

Bto K3 
R to K sq(A) 
PtooK R38 

om 
One ye 
OO ce CF pe OO 
~ & 
| 

Serg 
2 

RA ROROR RRR IOO 
= 
a 
bo 

AVABA 
se sss 

RB 

an 

Ay 
eo 
Sc 
ai 
— 
& 

_ 

Kt to Kt3(D) 
K to Kt sq 

CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Black. 

Kt to K sq 
Kt to R sq 
Pt. Pch 
Kt(Rsq) to B2 
Kt t. B 
Resigns. 

(A) Black would have played 
imprudently in winning the offered 

Pawn: 

17 B to BR 6, and wins Q, or mates 

in three moves. 

(®) Trusting in his two Bishops, 
and the free action of his King, 
White has willingly changed off all 
the other pieces. From this point 
he has a won game, 

(C) Black must keep the King 
out of K 5 at all hazards. 

(D) Black can no longer keep 
out the King. His own King and * 
both Kuights are hopelessly shut in. 

Game 208, played on the Ist of June. 
KING’S GAMBIT. 

black. 

8S. RoszgntTuan, 

"Sh 
~ 

White. 
10 Qtw B38 
1l Kt to Q sq 
12 Kt t. Kt 
13 Pt B38 
14 Bto K 2 
15 BtoQ2 
16 Castles Q RK 
Wor ar 
18 Rto RS 
19 Pto Kt3 

ina 

Black. 
Kt to Kt 5 

rom 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 

20 Q Rto Raq 
21 Kt to K 4 

ss 
aE 
Go 

to bo td 

00 83 

AAW 
Ss 

ttm OO 
. 

sssesss: 

ro) 

S 
ROWS 
a6 

= BaBes Teen 
Ee co 

WAAR eOD 
Cao op & Stes 

oe 
s 
HR 
aa 
c 

rs 
PAS ox oo 
- | 
~ 

~SS55S55EE82 588 S8ereees 
cco 

RAS CRA ROR Re RO 

sscsecserss 
RAR Re Roms 

oo 

Pepa ve , 
BESSSTSS 
‘are 
Lee) 
Le] 

oOnNoack whe 
te =) =) ey aye) 

& 
S 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES. 

Black. 

Kt to K 2 
BtoB3 

PtoK R3(B) 

Rt. R 

RRA UROOR 
Se"Sa 

° 

= 

> 

aha 

ao ot ct ot 

“see 

Deo 
co m po 

a 
co 

ro 
Or 
oO 
Cro 
oS 

AA TAROOOOCHOOCoOVOw 
ca 
wr nows 

265 

Black. 
P to Kt 3 

White. 
52 PtoR3 
Resigns. 

(A) It is singular that such a 
master of the Openings as M. 
Rosenthal should have selected this 
old-fashioned form of Defence, when 
that springing from Kt to K B3 and 
B to Kt 2 gives so decided an ad- 
vantage, that the attack is now 
rarely ventured on, 

(B) There seems no necessity to 
abandon this Pawn at once; it 
might have been saved by taking 
off the Knight and playing Kt to 
Kt 3. 

(C) Up to this point White has 
played eee and well, but from 

the next move he relaxes. 

(D) A fatal blunder: he should 
have returned to K 3, when Black 
would have gladly taken the draw. 

(E) He is obliged to sacrifice the 
Knight, for moving the King sub- 
jects him to mate, or loss of the 
Queen. 

(F) Tantamount to immediate 
resignation. By returning K to Kt 
3 he would at least have given 
Black some trouble. 

Game 200, played on the 15th of June. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

Black. White. Black. 
S, Rosentuat, 10 Q Kt to Q2 Kt to K Kt 3 
PtoK 4 11 QtoQ Kt3 Castles (A) 
KttoQB3 12 KttoK Kt5 KttoK Rsq(B) 
BtwoQB4 13 BiB Q t.B 
KttoK B3 14 PtoRS5 Q to Q sq 
BtoQ Kt3 15 QtoB2(C) PtoKR3(D) 
P to Q3 16 KttoK B$ Kt to Kt 3 
PtoQ R83 17 K Rto K sq KttoK R4 
Kt to K 2 18 PtoQ4 K KttoK B5 
PtoQB3 19 Pt.P PtP 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

266 

White. Black. 
20 Bto K Bsq (E)QtoB3 
21 RtoK38 Bto K 3 
22 P to K Kt3 (F) Kt toR6 ch 
23 Bt. Kt Bt. B 
24 KttoQKt3 QRtQsq 
25 KttoQ B5(G)QtoK 2 
26 QR to Q sq B to B sq 
27 R(K3)toQ3(H)Rt. R 
28 QtR Bto K Kt 5 
29 KR to Q 2 PtoK B4 
30 Kt to K sq Pt.P 
31 QLP BtoB4 
32 Qto B4ch KtoR2 
33 Kt to Kt 2 P to K 5 (I) 
34 Qto K2 Kt to K 4 
35 KttoR4(J) Kto Kt sq(?) 

(ix) 

36 Kt t.B Rt. Kt 
37 K to Kt 2 Kt to B 6 
38 KRto Q7 Q to Kt 4 
39 Qt.P QtoK R4 
40 RK to Q 8 ch K to R2 
41 PtoR3 Q to K Kt 3 
42 Kt toQ7 Ktto R5ch(L) 
43 K to Kt sq RtoB6 
44 Kt toBs Qt.Q 
45 Ktt.Q Kt to Kt 3 
46 RtoQ7 Kt to K 4 
47 Rt.P RtoQ6 
48 RtoB7 R to Q 8 ch 
49 K to Kt 2 RtoK 8 
50 KttoB6ch KtoKt3 
1 Kt to Kt 4 Kt to Q 6 
2 Rt. P ch K toR2 
53 PtoK B4 RtoQB8 
4 KttoK 5 R to B7 ch 
55 K to B3 Kt to B8 
56 Rto BS PtoR4 
7 PtoBdb Kt to R7 
58 PtoR4 Rt. P ch 
59 RtR Ktt.R 
60 Kt to B6 K to Kt s 
61 Ktto Kt8 KtoB2 
62 Ktt.P Kt to Kt 4 
63 Kt to Bd K to K 2 
64 KtoB4 KwQ3 
65 K to Kt 5 Resigns 

[Notes by Mr. H. E. Bird.] 
(A) Black could not now play 

P to Q 4 without disadvantage. 
White would reply with Bt. B, 
and play as Black may he would 
lose a Pawn. 

@) This was the only sound 
reply. 

(C) It was necessary now to 
make room for the Bishop to retire, 
as Black could now play P to Q 4. 

(D) Kt to Kt 3 at once was 
perhaps preferable. 

(E) Preparing for defence, and 
at the same time freeing the posi- 
tion on Queen's side for play of the 
Queen’s Knight, with the option of 
advancing Queen's Pawns. 

(F) Judiciously played. Black 
must now check with the Knight 
or retire it to K R 4, where it 
would be quite out of play. 

(G) This move, as will be seen, 
exercised a material influence on 
the game. The Knight at Q B5 
became very formidable, apetly 
for the end-game. It could not, 
moreover, be displaced. 

(H) White considered it desir- 
able in this position to exchange 
Rooks, with a view to the end- 
game, having in view also the im- 
portance of keeping possession of 
the Queen’s file. 

(1) This move requires care in 
answering. Ktto K 3 would not be 
good,as White must guard against 
the impending sally of the Knight. 

(J) Apparently the best. 

(K) P to K Kt3 appeared a little 
more hopeful for Black. 

(L) If White had at this move 
taken Knight with Queen then 
Black sronule have played R t. P ch 
with some chance of a draw by 
perpetual check. If Knight had 
checked again, K to R sq would 
have saved risk in this respect. 

—_ 00 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

ROSENTHAL’S GAMES. 267 

Game 210, played on the 18th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

alll xual wall ell eee ame eed 

White Black. 
S. RosenraaL A. SELLMAN 
1PtoK4 PtoKk3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
38 QKttoB3 K KttoB3 
4Pt.P PtP 
5 KttoB3 Bto Q3 
6 Bt. Q3 BtoK 3 
7 Castles Castles 
8 Kt to K 2 PtoB3 
9 Kt to Kt 3 QtoB2 
0 Pto Kt3 Q Kt toQ2 
1 PtoB4 K Rto K sq 
2QtwB2 PtoQ kts 
3 Bto Kt 2 Kt to B sq 
4 PtoB5 BtoBd5 
5 Kt toK 2 BtoR3 
6 KttoK 5 PtoQ Kt4 
17 Bto Bsq Bt. B 
18 KRt.B Kt(B3)toQ2 
19 KttoB3 Bto Kt 5 
20 Kt to Kt 5 Kt to B3 
21 Pt KR3 Bt. Kt 
22 Bt. B Kt to K 5 
23 Kt toB3 Kt to Kt 3 
24 PtoQR4 PtoQR3 
25 B to B sq KttoB5 
26 RtoR2 Pto Kt 5 
27 Pto Kt3 Kt to B 6 (A) 
28 Rto Kt 2 Kt (B 5) to 

K 7 ch 

29 Bt. Kt Kt t. B ch 
30 Qt. Kt (!) Rt.Q 
31 Rt. R (B) PtoB3 
32 R(Bsq)to Ksq Kto B2 
33 K to Kt 2 PtoQR4 
34 Rto K 6 Q to Q2 
35 R to Q 6 Q to Kt2 
36 R(Q6)toK 6 QtoQ2 
37 R(K 6)toK3 PtoRS 
38 P to Kt 4 PtoKt4(?(C) 
39 Kt to R2 P to R 4 (?) 
40 Pt. P Rto K Bsq(D) 
41 Kt to Kt4 Q to Q sq 
42 KttoR6ch KtoKt2 
43 KttoB5ch KtoRsq 
44 Rto K 7 R to Kt sq 
45 KttoR6 R to B sq 
46 KttoB7ch Rt. Kt 

White. Black. 
47 RR PtoKt5(?)(E) 
48 R(B7)toK7 Pt. Pch 
49 K to R sq Resigns. 

(A) The game has been admi- 
rably contested, and at this Bipes 

Black seems to have a deci ad- 
vantage. If: 

28 Pt. Kt QtP 

29 B to Kt 2 Kt t. R, 

at least winning the exchange. 

(B) It is difficult to foresee the 
advantage to accrue from the sacri- 
fice of the Queen for the Rook and 
Knight, but Rosenthal showed 
judgment in selecting this, rather 
than lose the exchange. So con- 
fined, however, is the action of 
Black’s Queen and Rook, that it 
is impossible to bring them into 
effective play. 

(C) The advance of this Pawn 
leaves the Bishop’s fifth open for 
the Knight, and, in fact, loses the 
game. Annoying as it might be, 
Black should content himself by 
moving his Rook to and fro, and 
he could at least ward off destruc- 
tion. 

(D) Black is now in great 
danger. If: 
4) 

hae R to R sq 
41 PtoR6 Rt. P 
42 Kt to Kt 4 RtoR2 
43 RtoK B3 Q to B sq 
44 Rt. P ch K to Kt sq 

45 R(B6)toK 6 Qt R83, 
mates in 6 moves. 

(E) This move loses the Queen 
for one Rook. There is, however, 
nothing to be done. If: 

AE 0 2's Q to QB sq 
48 R(B7)toK7 QtwB4, 
mate in 4. Lf: 

are K to Kt sq 
48 R(B7)toK7 KtoBsq 
49 P to RG, and wins, 

| 

I 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

oe Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

SECTION IX. 

WINAWER’S GAMES. 

NOTES BY THE EDITOR, 

inal fro 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

i . Original from 
Digan ty Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

wowwn 

CMO CONAO PhO De OCOOmMNAU RON He 

go o2 co oo BY RO RD NORD BORD et et es 
Bee SsouSNekeeee 3h come 

271 

WINAWER’S GAMES. 

—~——— 

White. 

S. WINaWEeR. 

ROW 
SESS OLE S TRO SRS SRS 
RRR ORS ye RO nro’ gsm 
to Oy 

wn 

ct 
oa 

2 

OWMoOP URS yp tTOmy 

mee RU wre 
3 

WORN RA ROARR PART RORTHOOR VION CR RRR 
ORS ES 

SMF Fr sraserersrrsactr ss 

ON Cote 
We TUR WS 

~1 
a 

= 
— 

t 7 ch 

Game 211, played on the 30th of April. 
FOUR KNIGHTS". 

Black, (A) Changing Knights is better 
A. Serrmay. than this move, after which White 

PtoK4 should get the advantage. 

Kt to B38 

et (B) 7 P to Q 4(!), as played by 

Castles match with Rosenthal, is the cor- 

B to B4(A) rect continuation. He proved by 

Kt Pt. B an exhaustive _— that Black 

Qt. Kt could not take the Pawn with 

P to Q 3 wicarig re or Knight without 

to Kt 3 oss, and in every case White gets 

Seki Go) the better game: Chees-Monthiy, 

Bt Kt Vol. I, p. 294. 

Q to R 5 (D) (C) Not so good as it | 

: = ae the first ames a ie 

Q RB to Kt sq (D) Necessary, as White threatens 

K RB to K sq to win a piece by; 

hab PtoQ4 BtP 

Qt QtB 

BtoR4 (E) 27 B to Kt 8 at once seems 

RtP 5 offer the best chance of drawing, 

QRtK ut in every case White gets slight! 

RtoK7 " the better game. set slighty 

P to 

Rt. A (F) Black cannot now save the 

R to Kt 7 (E) game. If he guards the King’s 

Bto Kt3 Bishop’s Pawn his Rook is hope- 

RPLB lessly confined, and if he makes any 

Rt KtP other move, as he elects to do, mate 

P to Q Kt 4 must follow shortly. 

P to Kt 5 G) Nothi be 

nea (G) ° eer done, 

RtoQKtsq(@) (H) King to Bishop’s square 

K to R sq (H) would demand a few more moves 

K to Kt sq to mate, but the result and modus 

K to B sq operandi are identical, 

Resigns, 

—— 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

272 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 212, played on the 12th of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
8, Winawer. J. Mortimer. 45 K to B sq B to Kt 6 
1PtK4 P to K 4 46 KttoQsq(?) Bt. Kt (1) 
2 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 47 Kt. B Rt QRZ 
3 Bto Kt 5 Kt toB3 48 RtoR8(!)(J) Kto B2 
4 Bt. Kt Pt.B 49 RtoQRS K to K 3 
5 PtoQ3 BtoB4 50 PtoRS5 PwoBS5 
6 Bto Kt 5 Castles 51 RtoR4 Pto B4 
7 QKttoQ2 R to K sq 52 PtoRG Pto BG 
8 QtoK2 P to Kt 4 53 Rt. B(!) Pt. R . 
9PtoKR38 B to Kt 3 54 PtoR? PtoQ6(?) CK) 
10 P to K Kt 4 PtQR4 55 Rto K 8 eh Kt B4 
11 PtoB3 Q to Q3 56 P queens Rt.Q 
12 Bt. Kt Qt. B 57 Rt. RB Resigns. 
13 Kt to B BtoRS 
14 Kt to Kt 3 P to Kt 3 (A) The game has been opened 
15 Castles QR(A) Pto B4 most originally by Ww inawer, who 
16 K to Kt sq PtoRS now boldly Castles in front of the 
17 P to Kt5 QtoK2 advanced Pawns, intending to see 
18 PtoR4 PtoRG on which side the impending attack 
19 P to R5 (B) Pt. KtP will break first. 
20 RtoR4 QtoK 3 (B) Both sides have played ad- 
21 QRtoR sq Rto K 2 mirably so far, and with the greatest 
22 KttoQ2 B to B sq (C) spirit. White leaves the Pawn as 
23 PtoQ Bet PtoQB3 a protection to King and prosecutes 
P t. we y : r ae his own attack. 
5 P to t. K : 
96 RLBP QtoQ3 (C) ON e a fatal check. 
27 PtoK 5(!)(D) QtoB2 (D) bie Avo played, If the 
28 Kt (Q2)toK 4 BtoK3 Qt. P, 2 RtoK4 would win the 
299 KttoBGch KtoRsq Rook, and if: 
30 Qt. P Pt. P OF x'sis.s Rt. P 
31 R(B4) to R4(!) KR to Q Kt sq 28 K KttoK 4 QtoB2 
(!) (E) 29 Kt to B 6 ch K to B sq 
32 Kt t. P (!) K to Kt 2 (F) 30 Q Kt to K 4, with an irresistible 
33 KttoB6é(G) Bte Kt sq attack. 
34 KttoK8eh(!)(H) K to B sq (1) (E) The attack and counter-at- 
35 Kt t.Q Bt. Kt tack aro most interesting, and a 
36 Qt. R ch Bt. Q more lively game was not played 
37 RtoBsqeh Kto Kt 2 throughout the Tournament. Black 
pe Sag 3 “ Paes is, however, the move behind. 
40 Kt to K 4 Bt. P (F) If: 
41 R(B3)toR3 B to Kt sq SB see Rt. Kt a 
42 PtoR4 R to R2 33 Rt. Rech art. R Oo 
43 Kt to B3 RtoK B2 34 Rt. Qch Kt R 
44 K to B2 R to B7 ch 35 QtoR2ch K to Kt 2 
lriginal trom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

WINAWER’S GAMES, 273 

36 Kt to K 4 BtoB 2 ch 
37 K to B sq, and Black cannot 

withstand the combined altack of — 

Queen and Knight. 

(G) Threatening mate in four 
moves, 

(H) If: 
Pee K Rt. Kt 
35 P to K 6 dis. ch K to B sq 
36 Q to B6 ch Qt B2 
37 P t. Q and wins. 
If: 
8 nets Q Rt. Kt 
35 PtoK 6 dis.ch K to B sq 
386 Q to B2 ch RtoB2 
37 Pt. R Bt. P 
38 Rto KR 8ch K to K 2 

39 Q to B 6 ch, and wins. 
(I) Mr. Mortimer may be said 

tw have lost the game by this bur- 
ried capture : 

RG ccs R to B7 ch 
47 K to Kt sq Bt. P 
48 RtoQR3 Rt Q?7, 

and Black should draw the game. 

(J) Threatening mate in two, 
and so getting time to save the all- 
important Queen’s Rook's Pawn. 

(K) A fatal blunder, specially 
regrettable when the whole game 
had been $0 stoutly contested by 
Black. By checking with Rook, 
however, he could not have drawn, 
and 54 K to B2 is equally useless: 
55 Rto RB 8 (!) Rto R8 ech 
56 KtoB2 Rto R7 ch 
57 K to Kt 3, and wins. 

The whole e has been played 
beautifully by Winawer. 

Game 213, played on the 14th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING, 

White. Black. 
A. B. Sarpwortn. 8. WIvawer. 
1PwQbBé Pto K 4 
2PtoK3 KttoQB3 
3 PtoQR3 PtoK Kt3 
4 KttooQB3 B to Kt 2 
5 PtoQ3 PtoQ3 
6 Btok 2 PtoBea 
7 BtoQ2 Q Kt to K 2 
8 QtoB2 PtoB3 
9 KttoB3 Kt toB3 
10 PtoK 4 Castles 
ll PtooK R4 PtoK R3 
12 Castles Q BR Q to B2 
13 K to Kt sq BtK3 
144QRtKBsq PtoQ4 

White. Black. 
15 Qto Bsq OP. FP 
16 Pt.P PtP 
17 Kt to R2 PtoK R4 
18 Kt to Q sy Kt toB4 
19 Bto Kt 5 Kt to Q5 

20 Q to B2(???)(A) Kt t.Q 
Resigns. 

(A) This was one of the games 
played in a late stage of the first 
round, when in fairness to Mr. 
Skipworth it should be stated that 
he was too unwell to play even 
fairly. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

274 

—SSssvsss 
TReOURS RRO 
PACS wo Sto co co Den ym 
rea) » 

srs 

a 
i 
RO BRON tN 
oe gph ae s 
O° 
i Ss) 
es oo 
S 

a 

ge 

B sq 
Q6ch 

— 
oc 
BORORS 

| 
a 
st by 
S he 
ow 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 214, played on the 17th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. 
S. WLiNaweEr, 

P to Q 3 (A) 

OROooOvws 

° 
4 

t. 
to B2 

22 B to B 4(!) (E) Kt to K 2 
93 Ktt. P ch (|) (F) K to Q 2 

24 Kt t. Kt 

25 K to Kt 3 

26 QR to Q sq ch 
27 R 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 

om 

bo 
i= 

5 & 
ADR AR RRR RR ROR 
SeSSS Sess ss Te 
xO 
wuaetaawmoo 
a i Wie 

ASRS DRO CROoe 

= 

cS 
see 
ox 

K Rto Bsq(G) 

serge 
Re Tae 

sssesss 
AA ROm py 
oo 

Vo 
orm ahd polo ean 
a 

cl) 
i — 

rob bd ee ed bo Do i i id 
SSSSsls 

s 
RA ROWO 

White. Black. 
46 K to B3 Bt Q3 
47 K to Kt 3 RtoQ5 
48 Rto Kt 6 Kt BS 
49 PtoR4 PtoK 6 
50 PtoR5 BtoB2 
51 Rto Kt 5 R to Q 6 ch 
52 K to Kt 2 B to K 4 ch 
53 K to B2 R to B6ch 
54 K to Kt sq PtoB5 
5b R(Kt 5) to Kt 2B to Kt 6 (!) 
56 RtR PtR 
57 PtoR6 BtoQ5 
58 K to B sq K to K 5 (!) 
59 RtoKt2(J) BtReh 
60 Kt.B PtoK7 
61 PtoR?7 P queens 
62 P queens ch 

(A) This move has only origi- 
nality to recommend it. Jaenisch, 
who endeavoured in his Analyse 
Nouvelle to include every possible 
Opening, says of this move, “ We 

it over at once, for it masks 
uselessly the K B.” In truth, how- 
ever, as a close Opening it appears 
no worse than any other first move. 

(B) This move is clearly weak, 
as it must lose the King’s Pawn 
and open Black's cramped position. 
11 Castles, followed by Kt to R 3, 
would have given White an ex- 
cellent opening. 

(C) Best under the circum. 
stances. 

(D) Taking the Rook at once 
was better, as though White can 

recover the exchange, Black wins a 
Pawn. 

Pee BtR 
19 KttoQ6ch KtoB2 
20 Rt.B P to K 4, 

and Black will keep his extra 
Pawn. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

After 
play hard to 
draw. 
Black 

6 ch 

K to Q6 
K to B6 
Kt. R 
PtoK7 
_ P queens ch 
P to Kt 4, and 
wins. 

y other move 

(1) If 38 K to R 3, Pto B 5 
gives Black an excellent game. The 
“move made loses a Pawn, but is 
(J) Ingeniously forcing the 
would win by K to Q 6, e.g., if 
q ch 

Against an 

probably the best course. 
this White has to 
ensure a draw. 

59 R to K sq 

60 RtoQs 

61 Rt.B 
64 K to Kt 2 

62 PtoR?7 
63 P queens 

WINAWER’S GAMES. 

fe 

by Kt to B 7 or B 
bjections to 
The course 

Game 215, played on the 7th of June. 

(H) Black threatens R to B 8 
ch. 37 R to Q Kt 7 seems best, 

(E) Better than winning the ex- 
change at once 

(F) Again better than winning 
the exchange by Kt to B 
though there are o 

to Q 4. 
81 Kt t. B ch, with a winning 

superiority. 
adopted, as followed out by White, 

moving the Rook. 
leads to the loss of a Pawn. 

a» _ 

= of oD gh a 
- Page FSawin en ew SO Fa S 
F MAPS. CSM On Ope MOOG ZOM OM 
mM S8SSHs8AsSegsss8ssssussus 
Fa iy fd Oy OOP OP AS AR A Bt a CPO OPA HM Oe 

White 
to 
to 
to 

t to 
to 
tt. 
to 
(R 
to 
to 
to 
(K 
t. 
to 
to 
t to 
to 
to 
t to 
t to 
t to 
t to 

HAAASAAASSSSSSRSRAQIIS 

FRENCH GAME, 

2 
PtoQ B4(A) 
P toQ Kt3 
B to Kt 2 
Bt.B 
Bto Kt2 
K to R sq 
B to Kt id 
R to B sq 
BtoB4 
Bt. Kt 

QtoK 2 

: + & oO 
- i++ $19 oO Bead 2 es For 8 on 
= g Moog OM On SOSHE TA eMONm 
B&ssisulssugemsussssssu 

MAD HON DASCHTANAAHAH HON DAOK 
See ee et ete ON OW 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

276 LONDON CHESS 
White Black. 
44 Kt toBé6 Q ito B4 ch 
45 Qto K 3(D Qt. Qch 
46 Rt. Q PtoQk4 
47 KttoK8ch KtoBsq 
48 Kt to Q6 Pto bs 
49 PtP Rt. P 
50 RtoQB3 Rto BS 
51 Kt to Kt5 PtoQRd5 
52 Rto B8ch Kt K2 
53 Rto B7 ch K to B3 
54 RtoQR7 Rto Q Ktd 
55 Kt to B38 PtoQ Kt4 
56 RtoR6 KtoK 4 
57 P to Kt 4 R to Kt 6 
58 Ktt.KtP(J) Rt. Kt 
59 Rt. P R to Kt7 
60 PtoR4 BtK5 
61 Pto RS R to Kt 7 ch 
62 K to B sy Rt. P 
63 Pt. P Rt. P 
64 RtoR2 K to B4 
65 RtoR3 PtoKk4 
Resigns. 

(A) The best move in this form 
of the French Game. Any other 
mode of play gives White the ad- 
vantage, with the chance of insti- 
tuting a strong attack on the King 
by P to K R 4 and Kt to Kt 5. 

(B) Ifl0 PtoKR4,PtoKB 
3, and White cannot sacrifice the 

TOURNAMENT. 

Knight at Knight's fifth with ad- 
vantage. 

(C) A peculiar fancy of Winawer 
to change off his Bishops for 
Knights and trust to their supe- 
riority in the end-game. He often 
gives up position, and the game 
ultimately, through this craze. 

(D) There is no object in this 
move, but it is difficult to suggest 
a better, as there is no possibility 
for White now to initiate any attack. 

(E) If 25 Kt to Kt 5 (7), 26 Q 
to B4., 

(F) Black plays admirably and 
takes all the advantage of his fine 
position. 

(G) White apparently moved his 
K to Ktsq, to enable him to guard 
his King’s Bishop’s Pawn, but finds 
that he cannot do so: 

31 PtoK Kt3(?) QtoB3 

32 K to B sq BtoR3ch 
33 K to Kt sq R to Q7, 
and at least wins the Queen's 
Knight’s Pawn. 

(H) Threatening mate. 

(1) Compulsory, if King moves 
RtoB7! 

(J) Mr. Winawer drinks the 
cup to the dregs, but his game has 
long been absolutely hopeless. 

Game 216, played on the 22nd of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
S. WINAWER. Dr. Noa. 
1PtK4 PtoK3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3QKttoB3 KKttoB3s 
4 BtoK Kt6 Bto K 2 
5 Bt. Kt Bt.B 
6 KttoB3 PtP 
? Ktt.P Castles 
8 PtoB3 PtoQEt3 

White. Black. 
9 BtoQ3 B to Kt 2 
10 Qto B2 Kt to Q 2 
11 Castles K R P to Kt 3 
1QRtKsq Btokt2 
13 Rto K 2 PwQB4 
14 Pt. P Kt t. P 
15 RtoQ sq QtoK 2 
16 Ktto Ksq(?) Ktt.B 
17 Kt. Kt K B to Q sq 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

=—_——— 

White. 

18 PtoKB4(?)(A) 

19 Qt. R 

ho to bo 
oeo 
RVOO 
=-SS 
lake 
wae 
io) 

S 

eo, 2. BPD 
2 or 

sess 
Naonwnh 

verses 
sé 
mm ORR 
c— 

*ss 
Son 
3 

1 

AWN RRR RRR ROROOR VU ROn 

st asss 

oe 
- 
° 

jos) 

WBWaAwnnwwv coo Oho Nw PP tS 
- 
o 
al 
eo 
orcr 

7 

49 

PBN Bat as PO a a ad PP 
5 
> 

= 

56 Kt to 
57 Kt. P 
58 K to R4 
59 K to Kt 5 
60 Kt to BS 
61 K to Kt 4 

62 Ktto Kt 5(!)(J) 

63 Kto BS 

eo 
A 
é 
Ss 

= 
- 

(!) 
(!) 

(*) 

WINAWER’S GAMES, 

> 
= 
SHE 

wes 

Cn 

mh pi 
ow wz 
» = 

sSserssssssssss 
OnOVnODMOOO KW WA WO 
& & co * oo 
3 = 

e+ oo & 
oOo = 

" 

Bneewe 
—_ 

fesse Ssssssrsssressssre 
TaOT RORR AR TOR DO mE 

* 8s E20 1p Fargo On ex 

3 or: ee 

DORR RRR RR ROR DR ett tr HOOOV URNA AOOn 

Sstsssssersssss 
RROD nOWA Tet Ao 

eo 
ou 

277 
White. Black. 
70 KttoK 4 K to Q 4 
71 Kt to Kt5 K to Q 5 (K) 
72 Kt to K 6 ch 
Drawn game. 

(A) At this stage of the game 
Mr. Winawer is playing rather 
feebly, and permits Black to obtain 
the advantage of position. 

(B) The necessity for making 
this move greatly weakens White's 
gme, and keeps his Knights chained 

own for defensive purposes. 

(C) Black would have got no ad- 
vantage by changing Rooks : 
es Rt R 
24 Qt. R BtooB4 
25 K to B sq, and is safe from all 
attack. 

(D) White has another weak 
point in his Queen’s Bishop’s Pawn, 
which Black can proceed to attack, 
and is obliged to risk something. 

(E) This, of course, !oses a Pawn. 
(F) If: 

SB isin Qt. Kt P 
36 Q to Q 7 (!) wins. 

(G) This portion of the game is 
very interesting. White struggles 
hard to make his Pawns’ supe- 
riority on the Queen’s side an equi- 
valent for Black’s extra force. 
Black relies on his passed King’s 
Rook’s Pawn to call back the at- 
tacking forces. 

White must now guard his 
King’s Bishop’s Pawn. If: 

48 P to Kt 6 PtoR?7 
49 K to Kt 2 Bt BP 
50 P to Kt 7 Bt. P ch 
51 Ktt. B P to K 4, 

and White cannot save the game. 
(I) White has played beautifully 
to draw the game, Of course he 
cannot take the Bishop, as the 
Rook's Pawn would queen. On 

the other hand, Black would lose 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

978 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

all chance of winning if he aban- 
doned his King’s Pawn. 

(J) White has mancuvred so as 
to force Black to advance both his 
Pawns on to Black squares, whence 
he cau stop their further pagers 
by the combined action of his King 
and Knight. It is a beautiful spe- 
cimen of Winawer’s play in end. 

passed Pawns can be foiled as they 
are in this instance. 

(K) This enables White to draw 
at once by giving up his Knight 
for the two Pawns; but it is clear 
that Black could not drive the 
Knight away from the King’s 
fourth and keep the command of 
every square to which he might 

games, and it is most rare to find move, and return to King’s 
a position where two combined fourth, 
Game 217, played on the 24th and 25th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. White. Black. 

Dr. Noa. 8. WINAWER. 31 Kt to Kt sq KttoB5 
1PtK4 PtoQB3(A) 32 Kt to K 2 Kt toQ3 
2Pt.Q4 PtoQ4 33 Kt to Kt 2 Kt(B3)toK 5 
3 Pt. P ra? 34 Bto K 3 BtoQB3 
4 KttoK B3 Q Kt to B3 35 Q to K sq Ki to BS 
5 Bto Q Kt5(B) Qto Kt 8 36 BtoBsq(F) Rto Kt sq 
6 KttoB3 Pt. K3 37 Rto K R sq Q to Q sq 
7 PtQR3 Kt toB3 38 R to B sq Kt toB3 
8 Castles BtoQ38 39 Rto K KR sq KttoK R4 
9 BtoQ3 B to Q2 40 BR to B sq Kt toQ 38 
10 Kt to K 2 R to QB sq 41 BtoK3 KttoK 5 
11 PtoB3 Kt to K 2 42 BtoK B2 Kt(K 5)toB3 
12 PtoR3 PtoKR3 43 BtoK 3 KttoR2 
13 Rto Kt sq Q to B2 44 Rto K Raq KttoBs 
14 Kt to K sq Pto K Kt4 45 K to Kt sq Kt to Kt + 
15 PtooKB4 P to Kt 5 (C) 46 RtoR2 Kt to B 3 
146 PtoK R4 KttoR4 47 RtoQ Rsq Kt to R4 
17 Pto K Kt3 P to B 4 (D) 48 RtoR2 Bt B3 
18 Kt to Kt 2 P to Kt 4 49 Q R to R sq RtoK 2 
19 BtoK3 PtoR4 50 QtoB2 B to Q2 
20 Rto B sq QtoR2 51 Rto Req R (Kt) to K sq 
21 BtoK B2 Castles 52 R to K sq Q to Kt sq 
22 Ktto K 3 RtoQB2 53 K to B sq B to Kt 2 
23 K to R2 K RtoQBsq 54 K BtoB2 K to Kt sq 
24 QtoQ2 Kt toB3 55 BtoQ3 Kt to R sq 
25 RtoB2 Q to Kt sq 56 K to Kt sq Kt to B 2 
26 KRtoQBsq PtoR 5 (EF) 57 KtoR2 Kt toB3 
27 Rto B sq KttoB3 58 K Rto B sq Kt to R 2 
28 QRtwoQBsq KttoQR4 59 BtoB2 Kt to B sq 
29 ( to Q sq Bto K 2 60 Kt to B sq Kt to Kt 3 
30 RtoQ Ktsq KtB2 61 Kt toQ 3 RtoQBsq 

: al rom 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 

62 Rto K 2 
63 Kt to K 5 
64 BtoB sq 
65 Kt to K 3 
66 Kt to Q sq 
67 Kt to K 3 
68 Kt to Q sq 
69 Qto Ksq 
70 BtoQ8 
71 KttoK3 
72 Kt to Kt2 
73 RtoQB2 
74 Bt. Kt (G) 
75 Kt to K 3 
76 RtoQ2 
77 Kt t. Kt 
78 QtoK 3 
79 R to K sq 

80 R(Q evs 

81 Btw Q 

WINAWER’S 

Black. 

Kt to Q 3 

Kt to B sq 
BtoKs 
R(K2)to)B2 
BtooK B3 
Q to Kt 2 

R to Kt 2 
Bto K 2 
Kt to R 2 

Kt to B3 
Kt(Q3)toK5 
Kt to R 4 
QPt.B 

Kt to B8 

Kt toQ 4 

Q t. Kt 
BtoK B3 
R(Kt2)toQB2 
BtoK2 
QtoR 71H) 

BLACK. 

co 
& 

om 
—_ 

no 
eF co 

SSSLSESRREREAS 
HR ROR nO Rn UA 
nan 
_ 

"ss 
i 

serses gst 

Bi td sO ty = 

eo 
— 
a 
co 
or 

~o 

BHA DARXOVTOORS 
5s 

GAMES. 279 
White. Black. 
95 RtoR 3 K to B sq 
96 KttoQ3(?)(J) Bt. Kt 
97 Rt.B R to 
98 K to B sq K to K 2 
99 PtoQs PtP 
100 Rt. P P to R 6 (!) 
Resigns. 

(A) A harmless, but ineffective, 
originality. 

(B) A pin of this description can 
only lead to loss of time, not of 
much consequence between players 
who are both bent on a waiting 
game. 

(C) 15 R to K Kt square seems 
a more likely way of forcing an 
attack, 

(D) There is now a block on the 
King’s side, foreboding a dreary 
game. 

(E) Which produces equally a 
block on the Sueante side. The 
reader, unless possessed of more 
than ordinary patience, will do 
well to omit the next fifty-five 
moves, which are almost all pur- 
poseless, and put up the position 
according to the diagram after 
Black’s 81st move. If he attempts 
to play all the moves to that point, 
he will probably never arrive cor- 
rectly at that position, in endless 
mazes lost. 

(F) White's ition is quite 
unassailable, aad t being evidently 
willing to draw he might now have 
moved his King to and fro to all 
eternity, and left to Winawer’s in- 
exhaustible stock of patience the 
responsibility of striking out some 
attempt to break up his phalanx. 

(G@) After nearly fifty moves, 
most of them without any purpose 
whatsoever, White mat be par- 
doned for having played mechani- 
cally and allowed Mr. Winawer 
here to force him to change one 
piece ! 

inal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

280 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

(H) Any one who has attempted 
to play through all the above moves 
should here rectify his position by 

the di we give. Winawer 
has at a combination on hand 
which forces the game. 

(I) If: 
84 Qto K 2 RtoB?7, 
followed by : 
85 .... R(B) to BG 

and P to K 6, winning. 

(J) This is speedily fatal. 96 
Pto R56 seems best, as it appa- 
rently prevents Black’s King from 
being played to Q 3 without losing 

his King’s Rook's Pawn. Owing, 
however, to the confined position of 
his King the result is the same. 

Game 218, played on the 4th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
_ A. BeLiMan, S, WINawenr, 
1PteK4 PtoKk 3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
SF. Pt.P 
4K KttoB3 K Kt toB3 
5 BteQ3 BtoQ3 
G Castles Castles 
7 KttoB3 PtoB3 
8 Ktto K 2 QtoB2 
9 Kt to Kt 3 Bto K Kt 5 
10 PtoK R38 BtoK 3 
ll KttoBd Bt. Kt 
12 Bt.B P to K Kt 3 
13 BtoQ3 Kt to K 5(A) 
14 R to K sq PtoKB4 
15 PtoB4é Kt to Q 2 
16 Pt.P PtP 
17 Qto Kt 3 QKttoB3 
18 BtoR6 RtoB2 
19 QRto Bsq Q to Kt sq (B) 
20 RtoB2 R to K 2 
21 QRto K 2 Q to K sq 
22 K Bto Kt 5 QtoBe2 
23}Kt to Kt 5 (C) Kt t. Kt 
24K t. R Kt t. P ch 
25 Qt. Kt Bt.R 

If: 
OG) 's.2 K to K 2 
97 RtoK 3 R to Kt 6 
98 RtoQB3 RtP 
99 RtoB7ch KtoQ3 
100 RtoQKt7 PtR6() 
101 RtoQR?7 Rto Kt 8 ch 
102 KtoB2 R to Kt 7 ch 
103 K to K sq 
(If K to K 3, R mates.) 

108. i<'5 3 PtoR 7, 
and wins easily. 

White. Black. 
26 QtoK 3 Bto Kt 5 
297 RtoK 2 PtoQR3(D) 
28 BtoR4 PtoQ Kt4 
29 Bto Kt 3 R to K sq 
30 QtoQ3 RtR 
31 QtR QtoK 2 
32 Qt.Q Bt.Q 
33 BtoKt5(E) PtwoQR4 
34 Bt. Kt Bt.B 
35 Bt. P ch K to B sq 
86 BtoBG Pto Kt 5 
387 PtoR4 Pt. P ep, 
38 Pt. P BtP 
39 K to B sq K to K 2 
4 KtoK 2 K to Q3 
41 BtoK8 K to K 4 
42 Pto Kt 3 Pto Kt 4 
48 PtoB38 Pto Kt 5 
44 Pt.P PtP 
45 K to B sq KtoK 5 
46 BtoB 6 ch K tok 6 
47 K to Kt 2 

(A) Up to this point the game 
has been played in accordance with 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

WINAWER’S GAMES. 281 

the beaten track, in this dullest 
form of a dull Opening. 

(B) The only move to avoid 
some loss, either of material or 

position. 

(C) This loses a Pawn, but 
owing to the strength of White's 

White. 
8. Winawer. 

Soe 
onsen 
a be) 

Srssarspess 
Von? Bin 
Sea. | 
o) eat 

mt ae pet ted ft et 
2 
— 

PDAbrawMeownntaneonmre 
gS gSSAE5 
© 
wr Ae 
rs 

ACLCOOVON SN AD ZOWN 
AwWSoo 

a= 
rd 

— 
@ 
tal 
eo 
= 

te 

=> 

al 

an 

a 

=] 
Rien 
a 

-_ 
—_ 
~~ 

ROAR ARRAS 

sever sss 

Ss 

we AE Ay 

aoa Ves ox © ote 
ae) 

“oo 
— 
-— 

Bishops, without inflicting on him 
any serious damage. 

(D) A useless manouvre. 

(E) As this secures the exchange 
of hisQueen’s Bishop forthe Knight, 

leaving Bishops of different colours, 
the game is drawn by force. 

eeeneca Cea 

Game 219, played on the 19th of June. 
FRENCH GAME. 

Castles 

Ssorss 
° Nor 
lewd 0] 

> 

fstrrssssssss 
HOR mH mr Oo RO 
a -~ 
= 
& 

s 
aa 
a 
to 
g 

et 

_— 
WTA 

& 

an! 
So 

RRR A RA SRO ARR 
ssssr 

maw 
oO i Op bo 

White. Black. 
35 K to Kt 2 B to Kt 2 
86 RtoK RBch KtoK2 
37 RtoQ Kt8 KtoQ 3 (?)(F) 
38 Kt to K 8 ch (!) K to B 
39 P to B3(!) (G) PtoQ5 dis. ch 

42 R to Q 6, mate. 

(A) If Black intended to push 
on this Pawn he should have played 
it to B 4 at bis last move. On 
consideration, he is afraid of the 
combination of Q at Kt 6 and K B, 
should he take the K P. 

(B) A palpable oversight. By 
playing to B 2 he would have soon 
a safe game, 

(C) Best ; moving K to R sq loses 
the exchange, and to Kt 2, Queen. 

(D) He is mated if he take 
Knight. 

(E) This loses the Knight. 
White, of course, is threatenin 
mate by checking at R 7, R 8, an 
K 8, but this could have been pre- 
vented at a less cost by playing 28 
Bto Q 2. 

(F) Of course the game is lost, 
but this move enables Mr. Winawer 
to win with an elegant finish. 

(G) Mating by force. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

282 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Game 220, played on the 12th of Jnne. 
FRENCH GAME, 

White Black, 

J. MorrimEx. S. Wivawer. 
1PtK4 PtoK 3 
2PwoQ4 PtoQ4 

3 QKttoB3 B to Kt 5 (?) 
4PtoK 5 (?)(A)PtQB4 
5 BtoK 3 Q Kt to B3 
6 Qto Kt 4 Pto K Kt 3 
7 BtoQ Kt5(?) QtoR4(B) 
8 Bt. Kt ch Pt.B 

9 BtoQ2 P.P 
10 Qt. P PtoQB4 
1l Qt R4 BtoR3 
12 Kt to Ktsq (?)(C)Q to Kt 4 
13 PtoQ B4(?)(D)Bt. B ch 
14 Ktt.B Qt. Kt P 
15 Rto Kt sq Qt. P ch 
16 K to Q sq Pt. P 
17 K KttoB3 QtoQ4 
18 QtoK4(E) KttoK2 
19 Rto K sq Castles K R 
20 Qt.Q Kt t.Q 
21 KttoK 4 K R to Q sy 
22 KtoBsq Kt to Kt 5 
23 Ktt.P Kt to Q 6 ch 
24 Kt t. Kt P t. Kt 
25 K to Q 2 BtoB5d 
26 Rto Kt 2 BtoQ4 
27 RtoK 3 QB to Kt sq 
28 Rt.R Rt.R 
29 Rt.P Bt. Kt 
30 Rt.B R to Kt 7 ch 
381 KtoK 3 Rt. RP 
32 RtoBdé R to R 6 ch 
33 K toQ 2 PtoQR4 
34 K to B2 K to Kt 2 
35 K to Kt 2 Rt Q6 
36 K to B2 RtoQ4 
87 RtoQR4 K to B3 
38 Pto Kt 3 R to Q Kt 4 
39 KtoQ3 K to K 4 
40 Rto K 4ch KtoQ3 

White. Black. 
41 RtoQB4 Rt QB4 
42 RwQRk4 PtoR4 
48 PtoR3 PtoKk 4 
44 PtoB4 PtP 
45 Rt. P RtooKB4 
46 RtoQR4 R to B6 ch 
47 KtoK 4 Rt.P 
48 Rt.P Rt. P 
49 RtoR6ch KtoK2 
50 Kto K 5 RtoBé 
51 Rto R7 ch K to B sq 

Resigns. (F) 

(A) White should change the 
Pawns, and no possible could 
accrue from Winawer’s premature 
sortie of the Bishop. Advancing 
the Pawn is the primary cause of 
White's subsequent difficulties. 

(B) Mr, Mortimer does not 
understand the principles of the 
close game. He is now in a very 
bad way. 

(C) White’s game is difficult, 
and he is subject toan annoying 
attack, but this move is about the 
worst he could select. 11Q to Kt 
4, with a view of playing K Kt to 
K 2, seems to give the best chances 
of success. 

(D) 13 B t. B is far less dis- 
astrous, 

(E) White is impatient for his 
fate. Changing Queens can only 
add to the certainty and speed of 
his end. 

(F) This is one of the worst. 
games played by Mr. Mortimer 
throughout the Tournament. 

| fron 

NIVERSITY 

ir 

PRINCETON U 

SECTION X. 

BIRD’S GAMES. 

TITE NOTES TO THE GAMES IN THIS SECTION 

ARE BY H. FE. BIRD. 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Digitized by Google 

Original from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

285 

BIRD’S GAMES. 

—~¢@—— 

Game 221, played on the 27th of April. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White. Black. 

H. E. Bixp. 8S. WIvawer. 
1PtoK4 PtoKk4 
2 KttoK B38 Kt to Q B3 
3 BtoQ B4 BtQB4 
4PtoQB3 KttoK B3 
5 PtoQ Kt4(A) BtoQ Kt3 
6 PtoQ3 PtoQ3 
7PtoQR4 PtoQ R4(B) 
8 PtoQ Kt5 Kt to K 2 
9 Castles (C) Kt to Kt 3 
1 BtoK3(D) PtQ4 
1, PP B t. B (E) 
12 Pt. B Kt t. P 
13 Qt QKt3 BtoK3 
14 Bt. Kt Bt. B 
1 PtoQB4 BtoK3 
16 Q Kt to Q2 Q to K 2 
17 PtoQ4 PtoK B3 
18 Kt to K 4 P to Q Kt 3 
19 PtoQi BtoK B2 
20 KttoK Kt3 QtoQ2 
21 QRto Q sq Kt to K 2 
22 KttoK R4 Castles KR 
23 PtoK4 Kt to Q B sq 
24 PtoQBS5 PtP 
25 R to QB sq P to KKt3(F) 
26 Rt. K BP Q to K 2 
27QRtoK Bsq KttoQ3 
28 QtoK 3 Kt to K sq 
29 Qto K Kt 5 Ktt. R 
80 Ktfr. Kt3toBd Q to Q sq 
31 Kt to R 6 ch K to R sq 
32 Rt. Kt B to Kt sq 
83 Ktt. B K t. Kt 
34 Rt. P ch Pt R 
35 Qt. Pch K to R sq 
36 QtoR dich K to Kt sq 
87 Q to Kt 4 ch 

Drawn game. 

(A) I am the only player who 
has yet ventured upon this line of 
play in the Giuoco Piano. - Until 
quite recently Zukertort, Steinitz, 

Blackburne, and all the book autho- 
rities were unanimous in condemn- 
ing the advance of the Pawns on 
Queen’s side as premature and un- 
sound, me and profound, in 
some cases all but exhaustive, ana. 
lysis has somewhat narrowed the 
choice of Openings at Chess, and 
the question, therefore, of the vali- 
dity or otherwise of this form of the 
GiuocoPiano must be of considerable 
interest and importance to all who 
do not wish to be confined con- 
tinually in their choice of Openings. 
I cannot venture my opinion in 
favour of this Opening abstractedly 
as equal in value to that of any one 
of ‘the great authorities objecting 
to it, but [ recommend the student 
to examine the positions I obtained 
in the following games, at any move 
he may select :—Bird v. Zukertort, 
29th move of White; Bird v. Eng- 
lisch, 26th move of White; Bird v. 
Rosenthal, 26th move of White; 
Bird v. Winawer, 25th move. 

(B) Zukertort prefers P toQ R 3. 

C) I sometimes play Q to Q Kt 
3, R to Q RQ, &e. 

(D) Against Englisch I played 
B to K Kt 5. 

(E) This is, I think, justly consi- 
dered premature. 

(F) A very ingenious, not to say 
artful, move; whether perfectly 
sound is another question. White 
considered the consequences of R t. 
K B P, and, notwithstanding Win- 
awer's plans, determined to doit. R 
t. Q B P would, however, have been 
sounder play. White could soon 
after have won P at Q B 2, and 
the game then would be indefen- 
sible for Black, 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT, 

Game 222, played on the 28th of April. 

SICILIAN. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
S. WINAWER. H. E. Bmp. 46 Rto K 2 P to KS ch(!) 
1PtK4 PtoQB4(A) 47 KtoQ2 Rt. P 
2 KttoQB3 P to K 3 (B) 48 BtoK 7 Rto Kt 8 
3 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 49 Bio Kt 5 Rt Kt 6 
4 BtoQ Kt5(?) KttoQ5 50 K to B2 RtoQR6 
5 Castles Kt to K 2 51 K to Q sq P to K6 
6 Kt t. Kt Pt. Kt 52 RtoQB2 KtoK5 
7 KttoQKtsq(C) PtoQR3 53 K to K 2 RtoR8 
8 Bt K2 PtoQ4 54 Rto BG R to R 7 ch 
9 Pt.Q3 BtoQ2 55 K to K sq K to B 6 (!) 
10 Pt. P Kt t. P 56 Bt P Bt B 
ll BtoK Bs BtoQB3 57 Rto B6 ch BtoBsS 
12 KttoQ2 Bto K2 58 K to Q sq R to Q7 ch 
13 Rto Ks QR to QBsy 59 K to K sq R to K Kt 7 
14 Kt to QB 4(D) Castles 60 K to B sq R to Kt 5 
15 BtoQ2 PwQkt4 61 Ro QR6E K to Kt 6 
16 Bt QRS Q to Q 2 (BE) 62 PtoRS Pt. P 
17 KttoK5(F) QtoQ Kt 63 K to Kt sq K to B 6 ch 
18 Pt. QB4 Sure 64 K to Bsq PtoRS5 
19 Pt. P BtoK B3 65 RtoQ R2 PtoR6 
20 Pt QB4 Kt to K 2 66 R to B2 ch Kto K 5 
21 Ktt. B Kt t. Kt 67 R to K 2 ch Bt K 6 
22 QRtoQKtsq(G) Q to Q2 68 R to K R2 R to Kt 8 ch 
23 Bt. Kt Q t. B 69 K to K 2 R to Kt 7 ch 
24 Pt. P Pt. P Resigns. (a) 
25 Qto Kt 3 QtwQB?7 
26 K to B sq P to K Kt3 (A) The Sicilian reply of P to Q 
27 Qt. Rt. Q B 4 to P to K 4 has probably un- 
28 Rto K 2 K R to QB sq dergone more vicissitudes in regard 
29 Kt. P Rt R to its estimation and appreciation 
30 Kt. R R to B7 ch than any other form of defence. In 
31 KtoK 3 Rt. RP 1851, when the Great Kxhibition 
32 RtoKkt8ch KtoKt2 London Tournament was com- 
33 B to Kt 4 Bto K4 menced,it was entirely out of favour, 
34 Bto B 8 ch K toB3 but its successful adoption on so 
35 RtoQKtsq B to Q Kt 7 many occasions by Anderssen, the 
(!) CH) first prize winner, entirely restored 
386 PtoR4 Pto R4 it to confidence. Its rejection by 
87 PtoQ4 KtoB4 Morphy in 1857-8, and by Steinitz 
38 PtoB3 PtoB3 in 1862, caused it again to lapse in 
39 RtoK Ktsq(I) PtoK 4 consideration as not being a per- 
40 P to Kt 4 ch K to K 3 fectly valid and reliable defence. 
41 Pt. KP PtKP Its fortunes have ever since con- 
42 KtoQ3 BtoQs5 tinued in an unsettled state. 
43 Rto K Req PtP Staunton (three weeks before his 
44 Pt. P KtoQ4()) death), dining with Kolisch and 
45 Rto K sq R to K Kt 7 myself, pronounced it to be quite 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

~ 

* 

BIRD’s GAMES, 287 

trustworthy, and on the same day 
Lowenthal expressed a similar opi- 
nion. Baron Kolisch, who has a 
vivid recollection of the meetings, 
concurs in these views. 

(B) I now rather prefer Kt to Q 
B 3, followed by 3 P to K Kt 3, 
and 4B to K Kt 2, See Bird ». 
Blackburne, Bird v. Englisch, and 
Bird v. Mackenzie, 

(C) Curious play, but Winawer 
never moves unadvisedly ; doubtless 
he required King’s second for his 
Bishop, 

(D) Commencement of a long 
combination, with the hope of win- 
ning the exchange by Kt to Kt 6, 
with the option also of playing to 
King's fifth. 

(E) Well calculated. 

(F) If White B t. Kt, Black of 
course replies Q t. B, threatening 
mate. 

(G) This part of the game is in- 
teresting and well played on both 
sides. 

(H) A very good move on the 
part of Black which materially in- 
fluences the subsequent course of 
the game. 

(I) P to Kt 4 would now be 
mate. 

(J) Black has now attained a 
wiuning position, I believe, against 
the best play, 

{a) The end-game from the 
44th move has been very finely 
played by Mr. Bird.—Eprror. 

Game 223, played on the 3rd of May. 

RUY LOPEZ. 
White Black. White. Black. 

H. FE. Brrp J, MontiMER. 23 KttoK B3 QteQB2 
1PtcK4 Pto K 4 24 Qto K 2 K R to Q sq 
2 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 25 B to Q Kt 3 KtoR 
38 BtoQ Kt5 (A) KttoK B3 26 KttoK R4 KttoK R3 
4QtoK2 BtoQB4 27 Pt.P RPt.P 
5 PtoQB3 Castles 28 BtoK 6 Kt to Q3 
6 Castles PtoQR3 29 QtoK3 Kt to Q Kt 2 
7BoQR4 P toQ Kt 4 30 PtoK Kt4 QtoK2 
8 BtoQB2 PtoQ3 81 KttoKB3 KttoKB2 
9 PtQ3 Bto K Kt 5 32 Rt.R Rt Rk 
10 PtoK R3 Bt. Kt 33 Rto B2 Kt fr. Kt 2 to 
11 QtB Kt to K 2 Q sq 
12 BtoK 3 Kt to K Kt 3 34 BtoQ Kt3 QwQ3 
13 Bt.B Pt.B 35 R to Kt 2 PtoK R3 
14 Pto K Kt3 Qt Q2 36 PtoK R4 QtoK 2 
15 KtoR2 Kt to K sq 87 KtoKt3(C) KttoQ3 
16 PtoQR4 PtoQ B3(B) 388 PtoKKt5 PtoB5 
17 Kt to Q2 Kt toQ3 39 Pt.QBP Pt.QBP 
18 KttoQKt3 KttoQKt2 40 Bto B2 Ktfr.Qsq toB2 
19 QtoKKt2 QtoQsq 41 Kt R2 QtQRe2 
20 PtoK B4 PtoK BS 42 QtwQ2 R to Q sq (?) 
21 PtoK Bd Kt to K R sq 43 PtoK Kté(D)RtcQ2 
22 Kt toQ2 KttoK B2 44 Pt. Kt Ktt.P 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

288 

(A) The Ruy Lopez, in the 

White. 
J. MoRrTimer. 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
45 QtoK 2 Kt to Q3 
46 PtoQ Kt3 QtoR6 
47 PtP QtP 
48 Q to Q8 (?) (E)Qt.Q 
49 Bt.Q Kt t.B P (F) 
50 Rto Q 2 Kt to K 6 
51 PtoR 5 K to R 2 
52 BtoK 2 Rt.R 
53 Kt t. R Kt to B7 
54 B to Kt 4 P to Kt 3 
55 K to Kt 3 Kt to Q 5 
56 Pto Bd FEE 
- 57 BtoQ7 K to Kt 2 
58 KtoR4 K to B2 
59 Kt. P K to Kt 2 
60 Bto Kt 4 K to R 2 
61 B to Q sy Kt to K 3 
62 Kt to Kt 3 Kt to B5 ch 
63 K to Kt 4 K to Kt 3 
64 BtoB2 PtoR4ch 
65 KtoR4 K toR3 
66 Kt to R 5 Kt to K 3 
67 Kt to Kt 7 Kt toQ 5 
68 B to Q sq PtwB4 
69 Kt to Q6 Eee 
70 Kt t.P Kt to B4 ch 
71 KtoR3 Kt to Qh 
72 K to Kt 2 K to Kt 3 
73 KttoQ6 PtoR5 
74 Bto Kt 4 K to Kt 4 
75 BtoQ7 KtoB5 
76 BtoK 8 PtoK 5 
77 Ktt. P (G) K t. Kt 
78 KtoR8 KtoQ4 
79 Be. P ch 

Drawn game 

opinion of many old players, not- 
ably Staunton, Buckle, Cochrane, 
and Kolisch, has never been con- 
sidered as a maguanimous Open- 
ing. I have not played it since my 
match with Wisker in 1873. In 
the present instance it was a lapse, 
or f should not have done so 
against so chivalrous an opponent 
as Mr. Mortimer. 

(B) Black could not, of course, 
play P to K B 4 now, for White 
could take it, opening attack 
upon the undefended Queen's 
Rook. 

(C) Over-refining, P to K Kt 5 
was obviously the proper continua- 
tion of the attack. 

(D) This move, which wins a 
viece, should in this position be 
ecisive, 

(E) Bad Chess in many respects. 
BtoQ R4should have been played. 
Black being a piece behind cannot 
afford to lose the Bishop’s Pawn, 
and to have to defend it is nearly 
equally prejudicial. 

(F) Mr. Mortimer at this stage 
is playing much better than his 
J peop He now has two 

‘awns for his piece and a better 
position. 

(G) The end-game has been ex- 
ceedingly well played by Mr. 
Mortimer. White acts wisely in 
securing the draw at once. 

Game 224, played on the 5th of May. 
BISHOP’S GAMBIT. 

Black. 

H. E. Brep. 
PtoK 4 
PtP 
Q to R 5 ch 
P to Q 38 (A) 

White. Black. 
5 to B 3 (B) KttoQB3 
6PtKKt3 QtKB3 
7 QP Kt toQ5 
8 Bto Kt 3 Btok 3 
9 EttoQB3 PtoK R4 

atall 3/ iL 1 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BIRD'S GAMES. 289 

White. Black. 
10 PtoQ8 PtoK R5 
11 Qt.Q Kt t.Q 
12 K to Kt 2 Bt.B 
13 BPt.B Kt to B7(C) 
14 R to Kt sq Kt to K 8 ch 
15 K to B sq P t. P (!) (D) 
16 Pt. P (E) Rt.R 
17 B to Kt 5 (?) (F)Rt. Kt ch (!) 
18 Kt.R Kt to B 6 ch 
19 KtoB2 Kt t.B 
20 KtoK 3 K toQ2 
21 PtoQ4 R to K sq 
Resigns 

(A) This move—P to Q 3—I 
adopted with much success in 
America in 1877. Although it is 
not recommended in the works of 
any of the leading authorities on 
the Openings, it has stood the test 
of practice well, and I believe is 
better than P to K Kt 4, the move 
usually played in the magnificent 
games of Anderssen, Harrwitz, 
Lowenthal, Kieseritzky, and other 
great masters who were most 
partial to the unrivalled Bishop's 
Gambit Opening. 

(B) Kt to Q B 3 is justly con- 
sidered the best move at this point, 
as it at once threatens to go to 

Q 5—a formidable square. Kt 
to K B 3,or P to Q 4, are also 
frequently played, the order of 
them being varied. The move in 
the text—Q to K B 3—has the 
sanction of Staunton, and has heen 
regarded as free from objection by 
other leading authorities. With 
due respect, however, I do not 
regard it as perfectly satisfactory. 
The Bishop's Gambit is rarely 
ventured in Tournaments or great 
games, being an Opening of a 
dangerous and decisive character. 
Out of 283 games in the Vienna 
Tournament of last year there was 
only one example of it. 

(C) Our talented and at times 
brilliant opponent failed to see the 
full effects of this move, fearin 
the loss of a» Pawn only. It wil 
be seen upon examination that 
there is no valid reply to Black's 
combination. 

(D) Threatening P to Kt 7 to 
win Rook and make a Queen. 

“(E) Deplorable as this is there 
appears nothing better. 

(F) Absolutely fatal, but in any 
ease Black has a winning supe- 
riority. 

Game 225, played on the 8th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 
A. B. Skrewortn. NH. E. Brap. 
1 KttoK B38 PtoK B4(A) 
2PtoK3 PtoK 3 
3 BtoK 2 KttoK B3 
4PtoQB4 P to Q Kt 3 
5 Castles BtoQ Kt2 
6 PtoQ Kt3 BtoQ3 
7 BtoQ Kt2 Castles 
8 PtoQ3 KttoQB3 
9 QKttoQ2 Q to K sq 
10 PtoQ4 QtoK Kt3 

White. Black. 
11 PtoK Kt3 BtoK 2 
12 KttoK R4 QtoK R3 
13 KttoK Kt2 Kt toQsq 
14 PtoOK B3 P to Q 4(B) 
15 RtoQ Baq PtoQBs 
16 PtoQB5 . Ktto.KB2 
17 PtooK B4 Kt to Q2 
18 PtoQ Kt4 P to K Kt 4 
19 QtoQ Kt 3 se eas 
( 
20 Qw~QB3 KttoK B3 
U 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

290 

White. 
291 PtoQR4 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Black. 
Kt to Q2 

22 PtoQ Kt5(!)(D)P t.Q BP 

23 OP t.P 
24 Oto B2 
25 Kt Pt.P 
6 Ktto K B38 

to re bo 

aparece Os 
Raw 
o 
= 

stitch tt ot 
0 
° 
ce 
= 

S 

RO BOO VA 
Ar 
to 

sé 

sSacom coc cot to 
a 

92 9 
os 
on 

> +t 
86 

-_Sesute 
AROS 

A 
wo 
> 

46 R to 
t 

53 K to Kt sq 
54 P queens ch 
55 Rt. BR (1) 
56 Q to Kt 3 

White. 

H. BK. Bra. 
1PtcQB4 
2 KttoQ BS 
3 PtoQ4 
4 Bto K Kt 6 
’ PteK$ 

° 
al 
a 
to 
oO 
a 

a 
te 

zi 
—_ 
~ 
° 

~ 
a 
oe 
2 

BtoK B38 

QtoK Kt5(H) 
QtoK RG 
K to K sq 
PtoK R4 
Q to Kt 5 

Q to Kt 3 

Q to K 3 
QtoQ4 

Kt t. P 

K to Q2 
Kt toQ 3 

R to B sq ch 
Kt to K 5 
Rt.Q 

Kt t. R 

Kt to B 6 ch 

White. Black. 
57 Kt t. Kt Kt t. Kt ch 
58 K to B2 Kt.R 
59 Qt. Kt QtP 

Drawn game. 

(A) This move has not been 
adopted as a reply to Zukertort’s 
invention before. It has the merit 
of stopping P to K 4. 

(B) Kt to K B 2 would have 
been better. 

(C) P to Q R 4 was tempting in 
many respects, but seareely so 
sound as the move made. 

(D) Mr. Skipworth played here 
with spirit and determination. I 
had to exercise much care to avoid 
disaster on the Queen’s side. 

(E) An unsound sacrifice, though 
well intended. Q R to Q B sq was 
the proper move. 

(F) Random play. 

(G) L intended to play Pto K 4, 
but Knight would take, and in reply 
to R to Kt sq ch. Knight inter- 
posing at Kt 6 would be double 
check and mate. 

(H) This move materially im- 
proves Black’s prospects. 

(1) A mistake. Mr. Skipworth 
should have checked with the other 
Rook at Kt 7. King must go to 
Queen’s square; then Rook would 
take Rook, checking, and should 
win. 

Game 226, played on the 10th of May. 
ENGLISH OPENING. 

Black. 

A. B. Skirwortn, 
Pt Kk 3 
KttoK B38 
PtoQ4 
Bto K 2 
Castles 

White. Black. 
6 Kt toB3 Q Kt toQ2 
7 RtoQ Bsq F.P 
8 BtP KttoQkt3(A) 
9 Bt Q3 K Kt to Q4 
10 Bt.B Qt.B 
11 Castles Kt t. Kt 

niginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

White. 
12 Pt. Kt 
13 R to Kt sq 
14 PtoK 
15 R 
16 

S 
oe 

a] 

B=) 
co 

Sssss 
OOK ROR 

Seg 

ran) 
moos 
cote S bo 

4 = 
Smtr mA eae ro 
Ses 

OR 

oie & 
Dp 
2 

\==] 

Lana 
— 
ee 

TALS 
Wes 
= 
9 

Setesss 
CAAA 

a“-_-=— 
© 
mn 
— 
— 
oe 
Ss 
© 
ros 

=~ 
~ 

% 
WR RO; ROM UH RO 

Ss 
a 
rw 

oo De 

cero wan 

| ll alll cel 

BIRD’S GAMES. 291 

Black. White. Black. 
Kt to Q2 41 RtR RtoKB3 
PtoQ Kt3 42 RtoK 7 R to B2 
B to Kt 2 43 PtoQé Kt to B3 
PtoK 4 44 Q to K 6 (F) K to B sq (?) 
PtoQB3 Mate in two moves. 
K K to Q sq (A) Of doubtful policy. The 
PtoQB4 Knight is seldom in strong play 
hyn ” | here unless in anticipation of an 
end-game. 
B to B sq (B) White after this has an 
o _ . ; advantage, his passed Pawn at Q 5 
being calculated to turn the balance 

: to ay 3 in his favour. 
Heong Be (C) Apprehensive of Rook to Kt 
Bt. Kt I 4, Q to Q 5 would not be good, for 
PtoK R4 (C) Black Queen would get into seer 

. culties, and the King’s Pawn would 
3 as x have to be sacrificed to extricate her. 
P to Kt 3 (E) (D) A capital move, which, with 
Rt B38 careful and good play, afterwards 
RtoQ3 determined the victory in White's 
QtoB3 favour. 
Kt to Q2 (E) Compulsory; if Rook moved, 
Qto Qs then B to R 7 ch would win the 
Q to K 4 other Rook, 
Q to K Kt2 (F) Conclusive. White now 
Ee? threatens to win in a variety of 

t. ways. 
_r 

Game 227, played on the 11th of May. 

SICILIAN. 
Black. White. Black. 

H. EB. Brrp. 13 Castles K R BtoK2 
PwQB4 14 QR to K sq Kt to B4 
Ptok3 15 BtoK2 P to K R4(B) 
PtP 16 Qto R38 B to Kt 2 
KttoK B3 17 Pt QKkt4 Kt to Q2 

B to Kt 5 18 PtoR3 PtoQ B4 
Kt toB3 19 Pt. P B t. P ch (C) 
Kt P t. Kt 20 K to Raq Bto B3 
PtoQ4 21 Bio Q3 Bt. P (')(D) 
Kt to Q 2 22 Bt. KtP(!) KttoR4 

B to Baq 23 BL RP K toQ2 

Q RK to Kt s 24 PtoBS Q to Kt sq 
P to Kt 3 (A) 25 Kt to K 2 Bto Kt 5 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

292 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
26 Bt. B Rt. B 
27 KttoB4 Q to Kt 4(E) 
28 Pt. Pch og 
29 Ktt.K P(!)(F) Kt t. Kt 
30 Rto B7 ch K to Qsq 
31 Qt. Kt R to R3 
32 Rw BS6 BtoQ2 
33 Q to Q6 Rt. R 
34 Qt. Rech Qt. Q 
35 Pt. Q RtoK BS 
36 PtoB7 B to K 8 (?) 
37 P to Kt 3 Resigns. 

(A) R to Q Kt 5 could have 
been played here, I think, with ad- 
vantage, 

(B) This move was considered 
bad as tending to compromise 
Black's position on King’s side. 

+ (C) Kt t. P was, perhaps, safer 
play. 

(D) Overlooking that White 
could safely take Knight’s Pawn 
with Bishop. Q to K 2 was the pro- 
per move, White would probably 
then have hesitated to lose his 
Queen's Rook’s Pawn and Black 
would gain important time. 

(E) A serious slip, forgetting 
that he was withdrawing a neces- 
sary defence from his King’s Pawn. 
Black’s intention bad been to take 
Knight with Rook first,and then to 
play Qto Kt 4. If: 

eo Rt. Kt 
28 Rt. RK QtoK Kt4 
29 RtoKR4 PtoQi 

Black’s attack appears irresistible. 
P t. P ch for White is useless. 

(F) After Black’s mishap, White 
finishes off the game in excellent 

style. 

Game 228, played on the 17th of May. 

SICILIAN. 
White. Black White. Black. 

A. SELLMAN, H. E. Binp 21 QtoQ sq K Rto Q sq 
1PtK4 PtoQB4 22 QtoB2 B to Kt 4 
2QKttoBs Q Kt to B3 28 RtoQKtsq QtoB3 (GQ) 
3 Kt to BS PtoK3 24 Rto Qsq Rt. Reh 
4PtoQ4 Pt. P 25 Bt. RK R to Q sq 
5 Kt t. P Kt to B38 26 Castles RtoQ?7 
6 K KttoKt5(A) PtoQ3 27 Q to Kt sq KttoB4 
7 BtoK B4(B) PtoK4 28 Bt. Kt Qt. Bch 
8 Bto Kt5(?)(C) PtoQ R38 29 K to R sq Q to K 6 
9 KttoR3 BtoK 8 30 BtoB3 Pto K Kt 3 
10 KttoQ5 Bt. Kt 31 Q to B sq Q to Kt 3 
11 Bt. Kt(?)(D) QtoR4ch 32 Bto Kt2 PtoB3 
12 Pwo B3 Bt KP 33 Q to K sq Qt. Kt P 
13 KttoB4 Qto B2 34 RtoK Ktsq Qt BP 

14 Bto R 4 PtoQ4 35 Q to Kt sq Qto Kt 7 
15 PtoB3 P t. Kt 36 Q to K B sq QtoQ5 
16 Pt. B BtoK2 37 QtoB3 Qtob7T 
17 BtoB2 Kt to Q sq (FE) 38 Q to Kt4 K to B2 
18 Qt Q5 R to Q B sq 39 QtoR3 K to Kt 2 
19 Bto K 2 Kt to K 3 40 RtoK B sq Qt. Bech 
20 P to K Kt 3 Castles (F) 41 QtQ Rt.Q 
riginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

BIRD'S GAMES. 293 

White. Black. 
42 KtR P to B 6 (') 
43 RtoB2 B to Q7 (!) 
Resigns. 

(A) As observed in note to 
Blackburne and Mortimer, it is not 
now, as formerly, considered neces- 
sary to play P to Q R 3 to prevent 
this move. 

(B) This was played by Morphy 
against Anderssen in the celebrated 
game published in Chess Master- 
pieces, . 

(C) B to Kt 3, with the view of 
P to B 4, appears to me to be the 
proper continuation. 

(D) A miscalculation. White 
loses a Pawn besides getting an 
inferior position by this injudicious 
move. 

(E) Very potent, as King’s third 
will be a fine square for the Knight, 
and Black’s Pawn at- Queen's 
Bishop's fifth is rendered safe. 

(F) White's Queen is now in 
danger. 

(G) Intending P to K B 4. 

Game 229, played on the 31st of May. 

FRENCH GAME. 

White Black. (A) I consider this the best and 
H. E. Bizv. A. Sxuuway. most interesting ny Bs continuing 
1 PtoK4 PtoK3 against the French Defence. Play- 
2PwQ4 PtoQ4 ing against Noa I moved B to Q 3, 
3 Kt to QB3 KttoKB3 omitting the precautionary move of 
PtoQR3. He replied with Kt 
4 Bto K Kt5 Bto K2 : 
5 Bt. Kt BteB to Q Kt 5 and P to Q B 4, which 
7PtoK5 BtoK 2 te 
8 PtoQR3(A) Castles (B) P to K B 3 is very much 
9 fake Pto K B4(B) better. 
OF OERS QwE sq (C) Rightly played. Black could 
1l KttoK 2 Kt to Q sq Rp OE 
12 P to B 4 (C) P to B3 not well pay his intended move 
13 Kt toB4 ProQkt3s. tPwoQBe4 
14 R to Q B sq Q to Q2 (D) Threatening P t. P, and if 
15 QtoQR4(!)(D) Pt. P Bishop’s Pawn retook, then Q t. Q 
16 Qt. P B to Q Kt 2 pe peep er ' 
. ece. 
17 Q to Kt3 P to B4 Di Sibi 
18 BtoB4 K to B 2 (?) (E) This move is tolerably deci- 
19 PtoQ5(!)(E) Pt. P(?) sive, play as Black may; taking 
20 P to K 6 ch Kt t. P the Pawn, however, is immediately 
21 KttoK ich Resigns. fatal. 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

294 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 230, played on the 7th of June. 
BISHOP’S GAMBIT. 

White. Black. 

J. Mogrimen. Il, E. Bixp. 
1PtoK4 PtoK 4 
2PtwKB4 EF toe 

3 BtoBd Q to RB 6 ch 
4 K to B se PtoQ3 

5 KttoK B38 QtoR4 

6 PtoK R4(A) KttoK B3(B) 
7 KttoB3 Bto K Kt 5 
8 PtcoQ4 Kt to B 3 

9 Bto Ktd5 Castles 
10 Bt. Kt Pt B 
11 Bt. P P to Q 4(C) 
12 QWQ3(!)(D) Bt. Kt (B) 
13 Pt. B Pt. P 
14 Pt. P Rt. P (!)(F) 
15 Qu R Q to B6 ch 
16 Q to B2 (GQ) Q t.R ch 
17 KtoK2 Q t. R (H) 
18 Qt. P Kt to K sq (I) 
19 KttoQR4'yJ) Qt. R8 
20 KttoKt6ch Pt. Kt (K) 
21 Q to Kt 8 ch K to Q2 
22 Q to Kt7 ch Kto K 3 
23 Qt. BPch(?,L) Kt toQ3 
24 Bt. Kt Q to Kt 7 ch 
25 KtoK 3 Q to Kt 8 ch 
“6 K to Q 2 Q to Q 5 ch 
27 K to B sy Bt. B 

Resigns. 

(A) I do not recollect to have 
observed this move at this point 
before in an important contest; it 
appears, moreover, worthy of at- 
tention, and, I think, strong; it 
compels Black to play P to K Kt 4 
at once if he intends to attempt to 
keep the Gambit Pawn, and this 
deprives him of a numerous choice 
of moves which he might other- 
wise select. 

(B) Black preferred not to at- 
tempt to maintain the Gambit 
Pawn. 

(C) In a position fairly deve- 
loped, as Black’s is, I doubt the 
wudence of this, which appears tu 
ay important time, unless a deti- 
nite object was sought to be ob- 
tained by it. 

(D) Correctly played. 

(E) It was essential to take the 
Knight now, as otherwise it would 

go to K 5 and be very embarrassing 
to Black. 

(F) Good and sound play, I 
believe. 

(G) Black calculated on White 
playing to Kt sq, losing the Bishop 
| not the Rook; Black would 
then have obtained an equivalent 
in position for the sacrifice of a 
Rook for Bishop and Pawn. 

(H) Black left himself open to 
considerable attack by taking the 
Queen’s Rook. 

(I) B to Q 3 was safer play; it 
is true that Black would lose his 
Rook, but he would remain with a 
Pawn ahead, and have his Queen 
first in play. 

(J) A very forcible move. 

(K) Had Black here played K to 
Q sq White could at least draw. 

(L) A mistake; Q to B 8 ch 
would still draw. 

23 Q to B8 ch 

If: 

+ K to B 3 
24 Qt. P ch K to K 2 

if he interposes a piece he loses his 
Queen, and White draws by per- 
petual check. 

—17os— 

Iriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

BIRD'S GAMES, 

295 

Game 231, played on the 12th of June. 

FRENCH 
White. Black. 

H, E, Biro. Dra. Noa. 
1PtoK4 PtoK 3 
2Pt0Q4 PtoQ4 

8 QKttoB3 K Kt to B3 
4 Bto K Kt 5 Bto K 2 

5 Bt. Kt Bt.B 

6 Kt to B3 Castles 

7 BwQ3s Kt to B3 
8 PtoK5 B to K 2 

9 Castles (A) Kt to Kt 5 
10 BtoK 2 PtooQB4 
1l K to Raq Ktto Bs 
12 Pt. P Bt. P 
13 BteQ3 PtoQ Kt 3 
14 PtoQR3 B to Kt 2 
15 P toQ Kt 4 B to K 2 
16 P to Kt 5 Kt to Kt sq 
17 K Kt to Ktsq QtoB2 
18 Q to K sy Kt to Q 2 
19 PtoB4d Q Rto B sy 
20 Q Kt to K 2 KttoBé 
21 KttoK B3 Ktt.B 
22 Pt. Kt QtoB7 
23 PtoQ4 QtoR5 
24 Kt to Kt 3 Q t. Kt P (B) 
25 PtoBd rt? 
26 Kt t. P Q to ( 2 
27 Kt(B3)toR4(C)P to Kt 3 
28 Q to Kt3 Bt. Kt 
29 Qt. B(!) (D P t. Kt 
30 QtweKtich KtoRsyq 
31l Q to B 6 ch K to Kt sq 
32 Rt.P K R to K sy 
33 R to Kt 5 ch (E)K to B sy 
34 Rto K Bseq(?)(F)Q to K 3 
35 QtoKt7ech KtoK 2 
36 Qt. P Rto K BR sq 
387 QtoQ3 Rt. P ch (!) 
38 Kt.R Q to R3 ch 
39 QtoR3 QtR 
44 QtoR7 Q) to Kt sy 
41 QtoR4ch K to K sy 
42 RtoBdb Q to Kt 3 
43 RtoB6 Q to Kt 2 
44 R to R 6 RtoB7 
45 KR to R 8 ch K toQ2 
46 QtoQ8ch K to K 3 (!) 

GAME. 

= 
E 
os 

RAW RR RA ROR I 
a ai 
ow 

& 

5 

> 

aT wares Franke * 
Pom” 
= & 
— —_ 

SSsSsetge 
Hamp Ue Ree hoORnRe 

BORO RRO ROO 
= 

sssesssssss 

vr 
~J 
we 

58 Q 
59 Rto B4(?) (H) 
Resigns. 

(A) P to Q R 3, as played Wi 
White in his previous game wit 
Sellman, is the soundest move 
here. 

(B) An imprudent capture : 
Black had hardly time for this. 

(C) No advantage would accrue 
from playing P to K 6 here. 

(D) Perfectly sound and fine 
play, sacrificing the Knight. With 
the best play White should win by 
force. 

(E) QR to K B sq should also 

Win. 

(F) Useless. Q to Kt 7 ch and 
P to K 6 is the line of play to win. 
34 Q to Kt 7 ch K to K 2 
35 PtoK 6 Q toQ B3( best) 
36 Rto K B sy R to K B sy 
37 Qto B6 ch K to K sq 
38 KR to Kt 8, wins. 

(GQ) Black has now worked his 
King into safety, and from this 
point plays beautifully to the 
finish. 

s 
a 
ma 
ic] 
ia 

ORRPORSCRRKORAARA 
~J 

essrs 

(H) This blunder concludes the 
contest at once, but in no case 
could White much longer resist 
the heavier forces, 

_ jt, 
imal Tron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

296 

White. 

S. WINAWER. 

— 

’ 

o 
= 
a 

co 

4 
a 
5 

eT eSsSrss 
nM eooce at 
te 

all ll all oll oe Bel 
ae 
S 

wwwr be for ho to he to 1 ee ee ee 

Be SERBS S essere Senseanawe 
al 
toa 
or 

RO 
i) 

ceo 
wey e Dnergs 

AAR AR UOT AR OR ORT OOn 
lal 
- mo 
& 

meee OOo 

“Sésssrnrsses 

Ro pot 
et é 
Ti ro 
oe 
~ 

P R 

33 Kt to Kt 3 
34 Kt to R 5 ch 
35 Kt to Kt 3 
36 Kt to R5 ch 

37 Kt to Kt 7 ch 

388 KttoB5d 

39 Kt to Kt 7 ch 

40 Ktto B5 

41 Kt to K 6 (H) 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 232, played on the 18th of June. 

RUY LOPEZ, 
Black. White. Black. 
H. BE. Brap. 42 Pto Kt 5 Pt. Pj 
P to K 4 43 Kt. P P to Kt 5 
Q KttoBs 44 Ktt. P ch K to Q2 
Kt to Q 5 (A) 45 Kt to K 2 KtoK2 
Pt. Kt 46 Kt to Kt3 Bto K 6 
Pto K R4(C) 47 KttoK 4 K to B 2 
BtoB4 48 PtoBé K to Kt 3 
QtoB3 49 PtoQ4 Bto Kt 8 
Kt t. Q 50 PtoQ5 P to K Kt 6 
PtoQ3 51 Ktt. P Bto R7 
toK3 52 K to K 6 Bt. Kt 
to Kt 3 53 PtoB7 Resigns 
toB3 
t. B (A) The able Chess Editor 
to B2 of The Field has the courage to 
to Kt 4 term this an inferior defence. With 
t. B the greatest respect we beg to differ 

RRR OUR 
os 
RO 
es 

from him. Zukertort and Steinitz 
have, I believe, slightly wavered in 

K 
to R4 their objections to it. The only 
to K 4 other two specimens in the Tourna- 
Pi? ment are Bird v. Mackenzie and 
t. P Englisch v, Winawer. 
es én (B) So far this is orthodox. 
P to Q4 (C) To prevent Q to R 5. 
K to B3 (D) It is very unusual for White 
BtoB to challenge an exchange of Queens 
Pt, Pech in this form of game. Qto K 2 
B to B sq is considered preferable to Q to K 
Pt.P B3. 
ee ye(E) Bt Pt RP was perhaps 
B to Kt 4 ag 
K to Kt 3 (F) R t. R and P to Q 4 was 
K to B3 Black's Oye play bere. He should 
K to Q3(?)(@) anticipate K to B 2 and B 3. 
‘Kto B2 (G) The game is a decided draw 
= ed ae hy its nature. Black was wrong in 
K to B3 waking any attempt to win. 
BtoR3 (H) Black’s game is now lost. 
——~——— 

| fron 

NIVERSITY 

if 

PRINCETON U 

SECTION XI. 

MORTIMER’s, DR. NOA’S, SELLMAN’S, AND 

REV. A, B. SKIPWORTH’S GAMES. 

THE NOTES, WHERE NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFIED, ARE BY 

THE EDITOR. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

om Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

299 

SELLMAN’s, AND 

NOA’S, 
SKIPWORTH’S GAMES. 

MORTIMER’s, 

Gume 233, played on the 26th of April. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. 

‘ Sena he Se oS Ae Se ch 

White. 

Black. 

White. 

a o 
o pe 
Can ws SeAws sao 4 
SOR Moa, FORA OM & 

P to Kt 3 
Kt. B 

oitet 4 3 0 a 
pada get To mmean 
rice mye relearn 
SSSSSuSESSSuUu2B38 

epererer eer ter ereT ert Tire 

BERARESRSSSSSISSS 

th the customary cau- 

and the freedom of his posi- 

Skipworth. } 
Black despises to treat this 
tion presently tells against him. 

(A) 
Opening wi 

tion, 

t. Q, winning, 

(B) Lively enough up to this 
B 
B 
Q 

point, and here I might have at 

once terminated the game thus : 

c 
h 
[The notes are by the Rev. A. B. 
a 
6 
7 

2 
2 
2 

P are 0 on ” of 
er aw ane Sy yen pace m oo oh & 
EC Glee bore rales ZERO MME EY OH mROS 
ASSTssssR_sus FS at sSSSSSSSsGIH33 
mp Ps a BY A A A A Sa oahtauGes aun onM Ae 
=) 
io) 8 eo oa 
- [==] *% 
aw a oo 7 2 bel ee I~ aD —_ 
Ban Saw of mag -Aactmas eae ME 
EosSotne snonagh os 3 o¥ neon le 
B SSH SSsSVR¥ss sss TT sme sssuwsusvsss 

Ps xiclnlslelosneeecamopuisidolopopstbtetordeobendpaise 

. Foon oO ee ae Aacangt 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

300 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Game 234, playcd on the 30th of April. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 
J, Monrimer. Dr. Noa. 
1Ptok4 PtoK 3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3’ KttoQBs KttoK B38 
4 Pt. P Pt? 
5 BwQ3 BtwoQ3 
6 KttoB3 Castles 
7 Castles PtoB3 
8 KttoK 2 QtoB2 
9 Kt to Kt 3 Kt to Kt 5(A) 
10 KttoR4 P to K Kt 3 
ll PtoK B4 PtoKB4 
12 PtoB3 Kt to B3 
13 Ktto K 2 Kt to K 5 
14 Kt toB3 BtoK 3 
15 Kt to K 5 Kt to Q 3 
16 RtoB3 Kt fr.Q2toB3 
17 Bto Q 2 Q R to K sq 
18 QtoB2 Rto K 2 
19 QRtoK Bsq(B) R to Kt 2 
20 Bto B sq K to R sq 
21 RtoR3 R fr. B sq to 

K Kt sy 

22 Kt to B3 Kt to R 4 
23 Kt to K 6 Q to Q sq 
24 Q to Q sq () to K sq 
25 Ktto Bs PtoKR3 
26 Kt to K sq Rto R2 
27 K to Rsq(?)(C) Ptok Kt4(D) 
28 Bt. Kt QP.B 
29 Pt. P PtP 

30 Ktto Kt3(?)(E) Bt. Kt (!) 
$1 Kto Kt sq(F) BtoB2 
32 PtoB4 PtoBS5 

33 RtoQ B3 Bto Be 
34 PtoQ kt4(?)(G) Kt to B3 
35 Bto Kt 2 PtoK6 
36 Qto K 2 B to Kt 5 
37 QteQ3 QtoR4 
38 PtooK R3 Bt. P 
Resigns. (H) 

(A) It is clear that this Knight 
cannot be dislodged, and Black has 
now the better game. 

(B) Both sides have developed 
all their pieces before proceeding 

with any attack. From this point 
all Black’s efforts are directed to 
the advance of his King’s Knight's 
Pawn and a direct attack on the 
King. 

(C) This weak move enables 
Black to advance his Knight's 
Pawn with great advantage. 

(D) Black now threatens to win 
at least the exchange and break up 
White’s game by advancing the P 
to Kt 5 and 6, 

(E) White has now no move to 
prevent decisive loss, but the one 
adopted is ruinous. 

(F) White elects to give up the 
ah taking the Bishop would 
ose a Pawn and the exchange, and 
leave him with a hopeless game. 

(G) White here omitted to take 
his ouly chance of recovery, though 
it would not have availed against 

best play. 

34 P to K Kt 4 P t. P e.p. 
35 Rt. B Pt. Pd 

36 K to R sq P to K 6 (!) 

But for this move White would get 
out of his difficulties. 

37 K Rt. P Kt to Kt 6 ch 

38 Rt. Kt Bt R 

39 Kt to Kt2,or(A) Bto BS 

40 Bt. B Pt. B 

41 Rt. P Rt. Kt, wins 

If: 

41 Rt KS Pa QtoKt 3,wins. 

If: . 

39 Kt toB3 P to Kt 5 

40 Kt to K 5 Bt. Kt 

41 Rt. B P to Kt 6 (!), 
wins. 

If: 

39 R to B sq Q to K 5 ch, 

wins. 
(H) White must sacrifice his 
Queen to avoid mate, 

val fr 
PRINCETO N UNIV ERS ITY 

MORTIMER’S, NOA’S, SELLMAN’S, AND SkIPWoRTH’s Gamers. 301 

Game 235, played on the 4ih of May. 
ENGLISH OPENING. 

White. Black. White. Black. 

A. B, Sxrpworrns. Dr. Noa. 38 Pt.P Pt.P 

1PtwQB4 PwQB4 34 P to Kt 5 RPt.P 

2PtoK 3 Kt toQ B38 85 Pt.P PtP 

3 KttoQB3 PtoK3 36 Rt.P RtoK B2 

4 KtetoK B38 KttoK B38 37 R to Kt 8 ch K to Kt 2 

5 PtoQ4 PtP 88 PtoB6 QtKR4 

6 Pt.P B to Kt 5 39 Q to K 5ch Rto B38 

7 BtoQ3 PtoQ4 40 RtoKt7ch Resigns. (E) 

8 PtoQB5 Kt to K 5 

9QtoB2(A) PtoB4 [The notes are by the Rev. A. B. 
10 Castles Castles Skipworth. | 
11 BtooK B4 PtoK R3(B) (A) I do not remember ever 
12 Kt toQ Kt5 () PtoK Kt4 seeing this position as a variation 
13 BtoQB7 QtwKB3 of the English Opening. 
14 Bt. Kt BPt.B (B) Preparatory to pushing on 
15 KttoK 5 Q to K Kt 2 the Pawns. Had Dr. Noa seen and 
16 Kt t. Kt P t. Kt fathomed the combination in store 
17 BtoK 5 QtoK B2 for him he would first of all have 
18 Kt toB7 R to Kt sq taken off his opponent's Queen’s 
19 Ktt.Q P = P OB3 Knight. 
20 Bt.R to % . 
21 Bto Q6 Rito K aq oe aig giving back the 

: ge, for the two Bishops 
22 P to QR3(C) : iE R4 would have been extremely trouble. 
tg FR oe some, and I felt that I had a suffi- 
24 P to Q Kt e . ciently strong position to win with 
25 Bt. B Qt the Pawns on the Queen's side. 
9 PtrQR4 PtQR3 
27 QtoK2 Q to Q Kt 2 (D) Threatening P to K 6, when 
98 K to Kt sq R to Kt sq the Rook would he en prise. 
29 Qto K Kt 4 QtoK B2 (E) For if K to Kt 3, protecting 
30 PtoK R4 R to K B sq the Rook, Black’s Queen is lost by 
31 Qto Kt3 Q to Kt 3 (D) Q to K 8 ch, &.; and if K to Kt 
32 Rto Kt3 RtoBS5 eq, 41 Qt. Q P ch, and wins. 

ee 
Game 236, played on the 4th of May. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 
White Black. White. Black. 

A. SELLMAN J. Montimer 5 KttoB$ PtoQB4 
1PtcQ4 PtoK B4 6 BtoQ3 Q Kt to B 3 
2PtoQB4 K Kt to B38 7 Castles BtoQ3 
3 QKttoB3 PtoK3 8 PtoQKt3 Castles (B) 
4PtoK38 PtoQ 4(?)(A) 9 B to Kt 2 Pt.QP 

Inoimal trom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

$02 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
10 K Pt. P PtP 
11 Bt.P Kt to K 2 
12 P to Q 5(') PtP 
15 Ktt.P Kt t. Kt 
14 Bt. Kt ch Kt t. B 
15 Qt. Kt ch K to R sq 
16 QRto Q sq BtoB 2 
17 Q to B 4(!) BtoQ2 
18 Kt to Kt 5(!)(C) Q t. Kt 
19 Rt.B Bt. P ch (D) 
20 Kt.B Q BR to B sq 
21 Qw KG RtoQB3 
22 QtoK 7 Q to R 3 ch 
23 K to Kt sy R to Kt sy 
24 K Rto Q sq QR to B sq 
25 RtoQ8 QRt.R 
26 RtR Q to Kt 3 

27 Q to B 8 (!) (E) Resigns. 

(A) If Black chooses to adopt 
this Opening, which, in spite of 
Mr, Bird’s fondness for it, I cannot 

consider a favourable one, he should 
at least avoid playing P to Q 4, 
which leaves the King’s Pawn very 
weak. 

(B) Black plays the whole Open- 
ing as if he had not advanced his P 
to K B 4; the difference thereby 
in the position constitutes a radical 
defect, which becomes more ap- 
parent at every step. 

(C) White has taken full advan- 
tage of the superiority of his posi- 
tion. Black's last move was forced, 
and to this there is no reply to save 
the game. 

(D) This is mere desperation, 
but the piece cannot be saved ex- 

cept at the cost of the Queen for 
Rook and Bishop. 

(E) Singularly decisive. Mate 
follows in two moves at most, 
however Black play. 

Game 237, played on the 10th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 

A. SarLMAN. A. B. SkirworrTn. 
1PtoKk4 PwK3 
2PtoQ4 P toQ Kt 3 
3 Bt Q3 B to Q Kt 2 
4BtK3 Kt to K B3 
5 Kt toQ2 B to K 2 
6 Kt to K 2 PtcQ3 
7 KttoK Kt38 QKttoQ2 
8 Castles PtoK R4 
9 PtKR3 PtoQB4 
WW PtoQBs PtoK R5 
ll Ktto K 2 Kt to K R4 
12 PtooK B4 P to K 4 
1S KB P+? QPt. P(A) 
14 BtoQRB4 BtoK B3 
15 Q to Q Kt3 Q to K 2 
16 PtoQsS Castles Q R 
17 PtoQR4 B to K Kt 4 
18 RtooK B3 Bt. Beh 
19 Rt. B Q to K Kt 4 

White. Black. 
20 KtoB2(?) KttoKB5 
21 RtoK Ktsq Ktt. Kt 
22 Bt. Kt Q to K B5dch 
23 BtoB3 Kt to B 3 (B) 

24 PtoQR5 Ktt. QP 
P 

25 Pt. Kt Bt. 

26 PtoQB4 Bt. B 

27 Ktt.B PtoK 5 
28 Pt. P PL..? 

29 Qt. P RtoQ7ch 
30 Rto K 2 Rt. R ch 
31 Kt. R P t. Kt ch 
32 K to Q sq Q toQ 5 ch 
33 KtoB2 RtoK R3 
34 QtoQR7 Qt. R(C) 
35 QteQR8ch KtoQ2 
36 Qto Kt 7 ch KtoK3 
37 QtoQ deh K to K 2 
38 Q to Kt 7 ch K to B3 
39 Qt. P ch Kto Kt 3 

riginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MORTIMER’S, NOA’S, SELLMAN’S, AND SKIPWORTH’S GAMES. 303 

White. 
40 Qto K 4ch 
41 Qto K 6 ch 
42 Qto K 7 ch 
43 QtoQB7 
44 Qto K 7 ch 
45 QOtoQ Be 
46 Qto K 7 ch 
47 Qt. P ch 
48 Q to K 7 ch 
49 QtoQ B7c 
50 Q to Kt 7 ch 
51 QtoQB7c 
52 Q to K 7 ch 
53 Qt QB7ec 
54 Q to Q Kt7 
55 QtoB3ch 
56 QtoQ5 

Resigns. 

SSSSSSSSSSSSS 

CRACK A Rh 

OP pa Ge ot SF py EF Ce 

ron COW aa «rl 
ro) 

CHAR RRR RAR 
Pi oo 

[The notes are by the Rey. A. B. 
Skipworth. } 
(A) This defence is rather a 

White. 
A. SELLMAN. 
1PtoK 4 

— 
—o oS 
md 
ao ce Oe 
rsSss 
& 
to ee 
wo 

—_ a 
= wo 
ai 
er 
Sos 

a 
att 
wo 

novel one, and it is rarely that so 
lively a game is thus early brought 
about in this Opening. 

(B) Preparing to make the game 
still more lively by sacrificing this 
piece next move. The examination 
of the variations consequent on this 
sacrifice occupied, I believe, nearly 
half-an-hour, 

(C) This was hastily played. I 
might have won straight off as 
follows : 

5 ee Qt. BP ch 
35 K moves RtoQ BS, 

and White cannot escape. The 
end-game as played was not an 
easy win, and many lookers-on 
thought that White would draw. 

It forms a not uninteresting 
study, 
Oo 
Game 238, played on the 14th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

Black. White Black. 

Dn, Noa. 21 Rto K 2 Q to Q sq 
PtoK3 22 Pio KB3 Kt to Kt 4 
Pte Q4 23 QR to K sq Kt to R 2 
Pt. P 24 PtoQ B4 Kt to B sy 
Bt Q3 25 Pt. P Pt. P 
K Kt toB3 26 QtoB5(D) QtoKt3 
Castles 27 Qt. P BtoK 3 
PtoQB3 28 Q to Kt 5 Q to Q sq 
QtoB2 29 BtoB4 R(B2)toK2 
B to K Kt 5 30 PtoQsb BtoB2 
BtoK 3 81 Pwo Q6 Rto Q2 
Kt to K 5 (A) 32 Q to B 5 (?) B t. B (?) (E) 
Qt. Kt 33 Qt. Beh KtoR2 
PtoK B4 34 Qto B3 Rto K 3 
Kt to Q 2 35 QtoQ3 RtoB2 
() to Kt 5(B) 36 Qto Qs RtoQ2 
Bt. Kt 37 KtoR2 Q to K sq 
QR to Ksq(C) 38 QtoQ3 Kt to Kt 3(?) 
PtoK R3 39 Qt. P K to Kt sy 
Q to Kt 3 40 PtoB4 R to B2 
Rto B2 41 Qt.Q3 Kt toR 5 

\ 
i il rom 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

B04 LONDON CHE88 TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
peed Fas QtcQ2 
43 P to Kt P to Kt 4 
44 Pto Bd R to K sq 
45 R to Q Baq Q to Q sq 
46 QtoQi5 K to B sq 
47 Ktokt3(F) QtoKt3 
48 Q to B5(') Qt. Q 
49 Rt. Q R to Q2 
50 RtoB7 RtoK B2 
51 Bto Kt 7 ch(!) Resigns. 

(A) 
ee Bt. Kt 
12 Bt. B P to K Kt3 

13 B to Q 3, is probably better for 
Black than giving up his King’s 
Bishop. 

(B) The Queen goes out of play 

on this side of the board ; Q to K 2 
were slightly better. 

(C) If: 
LP. sae Qt. Kt P 
18 Rto Kt sq Qt. RP 
19 Rt. P K Rto Q sq 

20 Q to BR 5, and White gets a 
strong attack, more than an equi- 
valent for the Pawn. 

(D) The result of Black’s wasted 
moves is that he now loses a Pawn, 
with a bad game. 

(E) 32 Kt to K 3 were far better, 
as White could not take the Queen's 
Rook’s Pawn. 

(F) To enable him to move 
Queen without suffering check from 
the Knight at Bishop’s sixth. 

Game 239, played on the 28th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White Black. 
J. MontTrMegr. A. B. SKIPWORTH. 
1PtoK 4 PtoK3 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 
3 KttoQB3 KttoK B3 
4 RtoK Ktd Bto K 2 
5 Bt. Kt Bt B 
6 Pt. P(A) Pt. P 
7 KttoB3 Castles 
8&8 BtoK 2 Kt to B3 
9 Castles BtoBa 
10 PtoQR3 R to K sq 
11 QtoQ2 Q to Q 2 (B) 
12 Kt to Q sq Bto K 5 
13 PtoB3 Q to B4 
14 Kt to K 3 () to Kt 3 
15 Kt to K B to Kt 4 
16 Ptok BA BtoR 5d 
17 KttoB3 BtoBs 
18 RtoB2 PtoK R4(C) 
19 QRtoK Bsq QtoRS 
20 KttoK 5 Kt to K 2 
21 Q to Q sq Bt. Kt 
22 QPtB Q to QOKt 3(!) 
23 QtoQ2 QRtoQsq(D) 

White. Black. 
24 Bt. P PtoQs 
35 Pt. P Rt. P 
26 Q to B sq KRtoQ 
27 R to Q sq BtQé 
28 KR to K sq PtoQB4 
29 PtoR3 PtoBs5 
30 K toR2 QtKR3 
31 B to Q sq PtoQ Kt 4 
82 Kt to Kt 4 Q to K Kt 3 
33 RtoB3 Kt to B4 
34 RtoB2 Kt toR 5 
85 Kt to K 3 QtoK R8 
36 P to K Kt 3 Kt toB4 
37 Kt to Kt 4 Q to Q Kt 8 
38 BtoB 3 R(Q 5) toQ2 
39 Bto Kt 2 PtoQR4 
40 Ktto K 3 P to Kt 5 
41 Pt. P Pt. P 
42 Pto K Kt 4 Kt t. Kt 
43 Qt. Kt QtoR4 
44 PtoB5 Q to B 2 
45 Q to Kt 3 Pto BG 
46 Pt. P PtP 
47 PtoK6 q t.Q ch 

| 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MORTIMER’S, NOA’S, SELLMAN’S, AND SKIPWORTH’s GAMES. 305 

White Black. 
48 Kt.Q FL? 
49 Pt.P R to K 2 
50 BtoB6 PtoB7 
51 BtoQ7 R to Kt sq 
52 Rto Kt 2 Bto K5 
53 K Rto Ktsq Rto Kt 6ch 
54 K to B4 Bto B6 
55 PtoR4 B to Q8 (EB) 
56 Rt. B P t. R queens 
57 Rt.Q RtoK R6 
58 PtoR5 RtoQR6 
59 RtoQ5())(F) RtoR8B 
60 K to K 5 RtoR3 
6l PtoKkt5(!) KtoBsq 
62 P to Kt 6(!) RtoR 8 
63 raee Rto K 8 ch 
64 K toQ6 R to Q8ch 
65 K to B7 RtoQ7 
66 Rto Bich K to Kt sq 
67 RtoQRS5 Resigns. (G) 

(A) In this form of the Opening, 
changing Pawns is not usual. 6 
Kt to 3, followed by Bto Q38 
and P to K 5, is the more cus- 
tomary and better way of conduct- 
ing the attack, 

(B) Had Black here played 11 
B to K 5, threatening to win the 
Queen's Pawn, 12 B to Kt 5 was 
the only, but sufficient, move in 
reply, 

(C) The game has been carried 
out in a lively and original manner, 
and is well ead by both. 

(D) Black purposely abandons 
his Rook’s Pawn for the attack, 

but by first playing P to R 5 he 
could afterwards have taken ad- 
vantage of his superiority on the 
Queen's wing without any counter- 
balancing loss. 

(E) Mr. Skipworth here makes 
a slip which loses the game. By 
playing 55 R to Q 6 he would have 
msured an even game, White 
must apparently have played his 
Rook to Q Baq, when B to Q8 would 
have equalised matters. 

(F) White plays the end-game 
admirably, which from this point is 

foreed. 

(Q) If: 
Of e'n.2 R to Q B7ch 
68 K to Q 6, wins. 
If: 
GP ive’ RtoKB7 
68 R checks R to K B sq 
69 Rt. Rech KtR 
70 KtoQé6 R to K sq 
71 BtR Kt. B 

72 P to R 6, wins. 

This was the first game in the 
Tournament wen by Mr. Mortimer, 
whose play throughout affords a 
marked contrast to the feebleness 
of many of his earlier games. In 
justice to Mr. Skipworth, it must 
be remembered that he played in 
direct defiance of his doctor's ad- 
vice, and any falling off on his part 
must be attributed to the state of 
his health at the time incapa- 
citating him for hard Chess. 

— +00 — 

Game 240, played on the 29th of May. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White Black, 
J. Mortimer A, SELLMAN, 
1PtoK 4 PtoK3 
2PtoQ4 Pte Q4 
3 QKttoB$ K KttoB3 
4 Bto K Kt5 BtoK 2 

White. Black. 
5 PtoK5(A) KttoQ2 
6 BtB Qt.B 
7 KttoB3 PtoQR3 
8 QtoQ2 PtoQB4 
9 KttoK2 PtP 
ps 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

806 LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

White. Black. 
10 Q Ktt. P Q Kt to B3 
11 Kt t. Kt P t. Kt 
12 Bt Q3 Castles 
13 Castles K R PtoQB4 
14 PtoB3 B to Kt 2 
15 K Rt K sq QR to QBsq 
16 QR to Q sq K R to Q sq 
17 QtoK B4 P to Kt 3 
18 QtoR6 Q to B sq 
19 QtoR4 Q to Kt 2 
20 BtoB2 PtoQid 
21 BtoK 4 Bt. B 
22 Rt. B Ft. F 
23 Pt. P Q to B sq 
24 Q Rto K sq(B) Kt to Kt 3 
25 RtoK B4 PtoR3 
26 Q to Kt 3 R to Q6 
27 Pt B4 QR to Q sq 
28 PtoK R4 PtoK R4 
29 Qto Kt 5 Kt to Q2 
30 P to Kt 4 PtP 
31 Qt. P Q to RS 
32 Kt to Kt5 Rto K B sq 
33 Q Rto K 4 Q to R 4 
34 Q to Kt 2 RioQ8ch 
35 K to R2 RtoQ7 
36 RtoK 8 Rt. RP 
37 Qto B 6 (!) QtcQs 
38 Ktt. BP(!) Rto R8(C) 
39 Qto Kt2(?)(D) Rt. Kt 
40 Qt. Kt Pch R to Kt 2 
41 Qt. K P ch K to R2 
42 QtoB ich K to R3(!(B) 
43 Q to K 4 Mates in three 

moves. 

(A) Changing Bishop for Knight 
before pushing the Pawn is the 
best form of opening against the 
French Game. 

(B) ue to this point White has 

played t 

e game 
and good judgment. 

with great care 

(C) This move, which wins, ought 
to have lost the game. It is clear 
that Black cannot take the Knight 
on account of Qt. K P; 38 K to 
Kt 2 seems to be his best move. 

89 Qt. KP Rto R8 
40 QtoQ 5 (!) Q to Kt 8 ch 
41 KtoR3 Q to B8 ch 

42 K to Kt 4 Q to Kt 8ch 
43 Rto Kt 3 Q to Q8 ch 

4 Qt. Q Rt. 

45 PtoK6, with an excellent 

3 

(D) Missing the correct con- 
tinuation, pointed out by Steinitz : 
39 Rto K Kt 3 (!) 

If: 

89 RtoK Kt 3 K to Kt 2 
40 Q to K 4(') QtoQ Kt8 
41 Rt. P ch KtoR2 
42 Rto R6 ch K to Kt sq 
48 Rto R8&8 ch K to Kt 2 
44 R to R7 ch, and 

45 Kt mates. 

If: 

BGs na Kt t. P 
40 Kt. t. Kt Rt R 

41 Qt. K P ch, and mates in four 
moves at most. 

(E) The Black King has got 
into safety, and White cannot avert 
his own mate, and can only post- 
pone it by useless sacrifices, 

Game 241, played on the 31st of May. 

RUY LOPEZ, 

White. Black. White. Black. 

Dr. Noa. J. Mortimer. 5 Castles PtoB3 
1PtoK 4 PtoK 4 6BtQB4 Kt to Kt 3 
2K KttoB3 Q Kt to B38 7 KttoBs3 Bto K 2 
3 Bto Kt 5 Kt to BS 8 Kt to K 2 Castles 
4PtQ3 Kt to K 2 9 Kt to Kt 3 PtoQ4 

Jriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

MORTIMER’S, NOA’S, SELLMAN’S, AND SKIPWORTH’s Games. 307 

White Black. White Black. 
10 Pt.P PtP 43 K to B5b BtoQib 
1l Bto Kt 3 Bto K Kt 5 44 K to Kt 6 K to Kt 3 
toK R3 Bt. Kt 45 BtoB4 KtoR2 
t.B Q to Q2 46 Kt.RP BtoR8 
to Kt 5 Q R to Q sq 47 PtoB4 PtP 
RtoKsq PtoKR3 48 PtoR4 BwQ5 
t. Kt BtB 49 P to Kt 5 PtP 
17 KttoB5 KttoBs5 50 Pt.P K to Kt 3 
18 Q to Kt 4 K to R2 51 P to Kt 6 Resigns. 
toK 8 P to K Kt 3(?) 
20 Qt.Q nfo (A) Losing a Pawn without any 
21 die Be meoeesity. 
-KP Rtok2 B) This also throws away a 
to Q4 K R to K aq Pawn without any reason. . 
toR4 PtoQ Kt 4(?) 
(B) (C) Although the Bishops are 
t. P R to Q Kt sq of opposite colours White's ad- 
QR4 PtQR3 vanced Rook’s Pawn, and the dis- 
27 Bt.P RtP tance of his King from the field of 
28 Kt toBé6 RtR action, gives White a winning 
29 RtR RtP chance. 
30 Bto Kt7 Kt to K 7 ch ve . 
81 Rt. Kt (!) RtR (D) This ill-advised sortie of the 
82 PtuR5 RtoB?7 King loses the game. 40 P to K 
33 PtoR6 RtkKt B 4 gave a fair prospect of a draw. 
t. R Bt.P It. 
t. P (C) K to Kt 2 (E) If: 
B sq K to B sq Re KtoK 2 
to K 2 K to K 2 438 BtoB4 KtoB 
38 PtoB3 PtoB3 44 KtoB5d K to Kt 
toQ3 BtoR2 45 K to K 6, and by crossing over 
40 P to Kt4 KtoQ3(?)(D) White squares to Kt 7 White will 
B7 (!) P to Kt 4 force the gain of the Bishop for his 
42 KtoK 4 K to B 2 (E) Queen's Rook’s Pawn, and win. 

Game 242, played on the 11th of June. 
FOUR KNIGHTS’. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
Dr. Noa. A. Sevimay, 7 QwQ5 Castles 
1PtoK4 P to K 4 8 Ktt.P Kt t. Kt 
K Kt toB3 K Kt toB3 9 Qt. Kt PtoQ3 
ttoB3 Kt toB3 10 Q to K 4 (!) PtoB3 
toB4(A) Ktt.P ll KtoKsq(!) BtoB3 
astles Kt t. Kt 12 BtoQ3 Pto K Kt 3 
i QPt. Kt B to K 2 (B) 13 BtoR6G B to kt 2 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

White. 
14 BtB 
15 QtoQ4ch 
16 RtoK 7 (‘) 
17 QRto K sq 
18 Pt.Q 
19 RtoB? 
20 Rt.BP 
21 Bto R6 (!) 
922 RtoK 5 
23 PtoQ Kt3 
24 PtoK B3 
925 RtoB3 
26 KtoB2 
27 K to K sq 
28 PtoQRK4 
29 KtoQ2 
30 RtoB7 
31 Rt.R 
32 PtoR3 
88 Pto K Kt4 
34 RPt.P 
35 K toQ3 
36 Rto K sq 
87 Pto Kt 5 
88 PtoB4 
39 KtoB3 
40 RtR 
41 Bto Kt7 
42 Pt.P 
43 BtoK 4 
44 K to Kt 4 
45 BtoQ 3 
46 P to RB 5 (!) 
47 PtP 
48 KtoB3 
49 KtoQ2 
50 K to K 2 
61 K to B2 
52 Kto K 2 
53 K to Q 2 
54 KtoB3 
55 K to Kt 4 
56 Bto K 4ch 
57 PtoBd 
58 KtoB4 
59 PtoQ5d 

~ 
~ 
_ 
~ 
= 
~~ 

LONDON CHESS TOURNAMENT. 

Black. White. Black. 
K t 60 Kt.P B to K sq 
Qto B 3(?)(C) 61 PtoQ6ech K to Q sq 
P to Kt 3 62 KtoQs5 to Q2 
Q t.Q(D) 63 K to K 5 Resigns. (G) 
KtoB3 
B to K 3 (E) (A) Dr. Noa’s Opening is an 
PtoQ4 agreeable variation from the mo- 
K RB to K sq notonous 4 B to Kt 5, generally 
QR to Q sq now played. Of course it offers 
k Poh ‘ the sacrifice of a Pawn. 
P = . 2 (B) In this position, cognate 
RtoQ3 with one arrived at in various 
RtoQ Kts forms of the Bishop’s Opening and 
R (Kt) to Q *: Petroff, 6 P to K B 3 is the only 
K to Kt 2 ‘4 move to preserve the Pawn. 
R(Q sq)toQ2 (C) Interposing the Pawn, or 
BtR moving K to Kt sq, were better than 
Bto K 3 this move, which enables White to 
PtP lant his Rooks in the heart of 
K to B sq lack’s position. 
PtoB3 (D) The exchange undoubles 
PtoB4 White’s Pawn, but 17 PtoQ B4 
Se . s pe Lge at once lose a Pawn by 18 
Q to K 4! 

RtoK3 
BtR ar? Black cannot save the Pawn. 
PtP : 
K to K 2 A = PtoQB4 
BtoB2 t. Q PtP 
K toQ3 2 QRwK7 PtQR3 
B to K sq 22 BtoB 4 Bto K 3 
K to B3 23 Bt.B Pt.B 
Pt.F 24 Rt.K RP 
K t0Q3 (F) White has pl 

: played very well 
4 toB r to this point, when he proceeds to 
= 7m Q ~ waste eight moves by promenading 
. Q : his King uselessly to and fro. He 
K . q 3 should at once check at K 4, as he 
K we 3 does in the identical position at 
K % 2 3 the 56th move. 
KtoB2 (G) For if: 
B to K sq 64.... BtoB2 
B to B2 ch 65 Kto B6 B to K sq 
PtP 66 Bt. P, and wins. 

—_——_@—— 

PRINCETON u NIVE RSIT Y 

SECTION XII. 

A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 
VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 

THE NOTES TO THE GAMES IN THIS SECTION, WHERE NOT 

OTHERWISE SPECIFIED, ARE BY W. M. GATTI, 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Original from 

Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN 

dil 

THE 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 

—o— 
Game 243, 
SICILIAN. 
White. Black. Queen’s side, constituted the best 
B. W. Fisuez. C. von Baxpenenry. continuation, although re 
1PtK4 PtoQB4 ame Was in any case not satis- 
2KttoKB3 PtoK3 factory 
3 KttoB3 KttoQ B3 (C) 11 .... P to K 4 would 
4 PtoQ4 PtP obviously have been premature on 
5 Ktt.P Kt to B3 account of the reply 12 B t. Kt, 
6 Kt t. Kt Kt P t. Kt followed by 18 Kt t. P. 
tag 3 (A) AB (D) Worse than useless. He 
9B to K Kt5 Bite K 2 should still have retarded the 
advance of the King’s Pawn by 12 
10 Castles Castles BtoKB4 
ll PtoQR3(?)(B)B to Kt 2 (C) , 
12 Kto Rsq (?)(D)P to K 4 (E) 16 R to K sq would have 
13 Pto BS epee been better. 
14 BtoR4 ttoR4 
16 BtoKt3(E) Bto Kt4 eaxoied 
VV RtoKs R to K sq (G) Throwing away his last 
18 Kt to K 3 QtoB3 chance of saving the game by Kt 
19 Bt. Kt Bt.B t. B. 
20 BtoKt5(F) K Rto Q sq Maki t ' 
21PtB3 | PtoKS Pit Rovagg agarociyen gh 
22 Kt to Q 4 (?) (@)Q to B 5 (!) however, be saved ; for, if 27 Rt. B, 
23 Pto K Kt3 Bt.P then ; 
24 Rto K 2 PtP a7 PLP( 
25 Kt t. P PtoQs sa'58 FO 
28 QtoK Bsq PtP 
26 Rto Kt 2 QtoR4 
29 Rto K sq,or(A)RtoQ7 
27 Ktt.P (?)(H) Bt. Reh 
30 B to K 2, or (B) R to K 
28 Kt. B Qt. P ch 1 
81 RtoR38 KRtB 
29 KtoB3 Q to B7 ch 
32 RtR RtR 
30 K to K 4 Q to B5 ch 
33 Rt.Q Bt. Kt ch 
31 KtQ3 QtoB4ch 
34 K to Kt sq Rto Kt 7 ch 
32 K to B4 Q to Q 4 ch : 
Resigns 35 Qt.R 5 queeus ch 
. ’ 36 Q to Bsq Q t.Q ch, and 
(A) 7 P to K 5 is preferable. wins, 
(B) Very weak. 11 Bto K B 4, A. 
followed by Kt to K 2 and the 29 RteQKtsqg RtoQ7 
advance of the Pawns on the 30 RtoR3 QtoB4, 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

$12 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

threatening R to K B 7, and Black (If: 32 Rt.Q, Bt. Kt ch, &.) 
must win. If: 
3 Qt. R* i 
B. 32 Bto K 2 R to K « 
1 
30 RtoR3 KtoK B7 33 K to Kt sq B t. Kt, and 
31 Qt.R wins. 
Se 
Game 244. 
SICILIAN. 
White. Black. (A) It is now generally con- 
G. A. MacDoxwe.t. C. von BarDELEBEy. a. ee to deploy the ben 
' ig ore vancing e 
tienes Pune. Queen's Fawn. 
3 PtcQ4(A) PtP (B) Although this move resulted 
4 Ktt.P Kt to K B3 in Black’s obtaining a passed Pawn, 
5 BtoQ3 Kt to B 3 it would have been still more dis- 
6 Kt t. Kt Kt Pt. Kt advantageous to permit the ent 
7 Castles PtoQ4 of the Black Knight at White's Q 
BS eS: hes B 5. 
9 PtoKB4 B to B4ch (C) White has now indis 
- putably 
10 K toR 54 Castles the better game. Black has placed 
.s Kt ar 3 - tooQR3 his Queen where she is almost 
13 4 to 4 9 toB4 werless, and is, moreover, hemmed 
14 phy Kt 4 (B ro Re in by her own pieces ; his Bishops 
15 P 4 2 3 (B) P eP are still more hopelessly out of 
16 PtP B to Kt2 play, and the Queen’s Bishop's file 
7 RoR R 9 B is sufficiently guarded against any 
18 BtoK 3 to B2 incursion of the Black Rooks. 
19 kK to Kt ; = to Bsq White may, therefore, safely press 
nt pay - dhe the attack on the King’s flank. 
21 PtoR3 K Rto B2(f) (D) At this point White might 
22 Rto K B sq (C) P to Kt 3 have obtained a fine attacking game 
23 Kt to Kt3(D) QtoB3 by 28 Pto Kt 4. The course ac- 
24 Kt toR5 Q to R 5 (E) tually adopted was, however, quite 
25 Kt t. B(F) Rt. Kt satisfactory. 
26BtRP(G@) Rwb7 (E) A clever artifice, which 
44 2 re o4 tea 3 should not, however, have suc- 
. ceeded against a player of Mr. 
= .: am $0) es 2 MacDonnell’s strength. 
3] Q to Q B3 Q t. Kt P (F) White plays in evident un- 
32 KRtoB3 RtoR? consciousness of the tra laid for 
33 R to Bsq QRt.P him. 25 Q to Q sq would certainly 
34 QtR Rt.Q have given him the better game, 
235 RtLR Qto Kt 5 and would, I believe, have led to 
26 RtoK B38 Kt toQ2 the gain of the Queen’s Rook's 
387 PtoR3 Kt to Kt 3 Fawn by force. 
388 Rto B7 Kt to BS (G) Fatal. He might still have 
igus. equalised the fight by 26 Q to Q sq 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Cana konwe 

10 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 

313 

Game 245. 
POLERIO GAMBIT. 

White. Black. 
F, S. Exson. C. vor BarDELEBEy, 
PtoK4 PtoK4 
PtoK B4 Pt.P 

P to Q 4 (A) Q to R 5ch 
K to K 2 PtoQ4 
Pur B to Q 3 (B) 
PtoB4 PtoQ Kt3 
KttoK B3 Bto K Kt 5 
K to Q2 Bt. Kt 

Q t. B Kt toQ 2 
PtoQR3 PtoQR4 
Kt to B3 Kt to K 2 
KtoB2 Castles K R 
BtoQ3 Kt to Kt 3 
Bto Q2 QtoB3 

Kt to K 4(!) Qt. P 
BtoB38 Q to K 6 

Q t. Q(C) Pt.Q 
QRto Ksq(D) Bto BS 

P to K Kt 3 BtoR3 
Bt Q4 Q Rto K sq 
PtoK R4(E) KKttoK4F) 
Bt. P(G) Ktt. B 

K t. Kt Kt to K 4 ch 
KtoB3(H) KttoBé 
Bt. B (!) Kt t. RB 

Rt. Kt PtoB4(1 
Kt to B 6 ch (J) Pt. Kt 
Rto K B sq RtoB2 
Rt. P RtoK4 
RtoB3 PtooK B4 
RtoQ3(K) RtwK5 

P to Q Kt4 Pt. P ch 
PtP R to Q2 
RtoB 3 (?) (L) P to Kt 4 (!) 
Rt P Rt. P ch 

K to Kt 3 Rto B2 

K to Kt 5ch K to R sq 
RtoK 5 R to K B6ch 
KtoR2(M) Rt KKtP 
PtoQ6 Pt. P 

Rt. P Rt.RP 

B to B sq RtoR7 ch 
K to Kt sq R to Kt 8 
R to Kt 6 PtoQ4 
RtQB6 RtoR5 

R to Kt 6 RtwQBsd 
Resigns, 

(A) An old move, reintroduced 
by Mr. G. B, Fraser, and Mr. Ensor. 
(B) As at the similar stage of 
the Steinitz Gambit, Black may 
here Far 5....Q to K 2 ch, 
giving White the choice between a 
very inferior game and a draw by 
ual check. As Black is play- 
ing to win I should prefer the fol- 
lowing continuation :-— 

) ere BtoK Kt5ch 

6 KttoB3 Kt to Q 2 

7 PtoB4 

oe is in the spirit of Mr. Ensor's 
eviation from the Steinitz 

Gambit.) 

ere Castles 

8 KtoQ2 Kt to B 3, 

with a good game. 

(C) Mr. Guest suggests in the 
Morning Post 17 Q to R 5—a move 
which cannot be analytically demon- 
strated to yield an advantage to 
White, but would have been most 
difficult to meet in actual play. 
Black’s best reply is 17.... § Kt 
to K 4, e.g.: 

17 QtoRS5 QKttoK4(!) 
18 Bt. Kt(best) Bt. B (best) 
Or A, 

ig KRtoKsq QtwQgsd 
20 Kt to B 8 (best) B to B 8 (1) 
21QRtoQsq QtoB7ch 
22 RtoK 2 QtoR5 

maintaining the Pawn with a good 
game. 

A. 
18 QRto Q sq Kt t. B 
19 K R to K sq Ktt. R 
20 Rt. Kt Qt. 
21 Bt. Q K R to K sq 

and Black has a full equivalent for 
his Queen. 

(D) An error. White should 
have played 18 Kt t. B, afterwards 
regaining the Pawn by Q R to K 
sq and B to-Q 4. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

314 A SELECTION 

(E) Of course if 21 Bt. P, B t. 
Bb, 22 Rt. B, P to K B 4, winning 

w piece. 

(F) The initiatory move of a very 

pretty combination. 

OP GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

30 KtoQ4 PtoK 6 

31 KtoQ3 K to B 2 (!) 
32 Bt. P, White should certainly 
win. If Black play 27....P t. 
Kt, then: 

(G) If: 28 Bt. P Rto B6 ch 
‘ 29 K to B2 Rto B7 ch 
22 Ktto Kt 5 Ktt. B ; 
23 Kt Kt Bt. Kt 30 K to B sq, and ought to win. 
24 Pt.B Kt to K 4 ch, (K) Again ill-judged. Mr. Guest 
and Black should win. points out that 31 P to Q Kt 4 or 
(H) If: B to B 4 would have drawn easily. 
24 K to K 2 Bt. B (L) 34 B to B 4 would still have 
295 Kt.B P to K B4, afforded White fair prospect of a 
winning two Pawns at least. draw. 
a a s 3 Rt. R 
oR g 30 to t. 
ate me Beg 40 Bt R K to Kt2 
27 BtoB4 
41 BtoB4 K to Kt 3 
(J) 27 Bto B 4 scems far pre- 42 BtoK 5 KtoB4 
ferable. Black has apparently no 43 Bto B4 PtoR4 
better reply than 27 .... Rt. Kt, 44 P to () 6 Pt.P 
and after : 45 Bt. P RtoQs 
28 Rt R Pt. R 46 Bto Kt 8 R to Q 6 ch, 
29 Bt. P Rto B 6 ch and wins. 
——+$4+— 
Game 246. 
ENGLISH OPENING. 
White. Black. White. Black, 
U. voN BARDELEBEN, L. Berima, 16 Ktt.P Bt. Kt 
1PwQB4 P to K 4(A) 17 Bt. B Ktt. B 
2PtoK3 PtoQB38(?) 18 Q to K 6 ch Q to Q2 
3 Pt Q4 P to K5(?)(B) 19 Qt. Kt Kt to B3 
4KttcQB3 P to Q4(C) 20 Q to Kt 2 R to K sq 
5 Qto Kt 3 Kt to B3 21 KttoB3 Pto K Kt 3 
6 BtoQ 2 P to QR3(D) 22 K R to Bsq B to K 2 
7 PtoBd Qto B2 23 Rio BS Kt to Q 4 (?) 
8 Castles BtoB4 24 PtoK 4 Kt t. Kt 
9PtoB3 Q Kt to Q 2 25 Bt. Kt KRtoKtsq(F) 
10 Pto Kt 4 (!) Bto Kt 3 26 RtoKsq(G@) K te Kt sq 
1l Pto Kt 5 Kt to K Kt sq 27 K to Kt aq B to Q sq 
12 Pt. P Pt. P 28 K Rto K 8 QtoK2 
18 Bto Kt 2 PtoB4 29 QtoQB2(H) KRtoBsq(!) 
14 Pt. Pep. Q Kt t. P 30 K Rto K 2 K to R sq 
15 K KttoK2 Castles (E) 31 Pto Kt 4 QtoQ2 
riginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 315 

White. Black. 
32 Q to Q 3 (PF) B to R5(!)(I) 
33 RtoQsq (J) Qto Kt5 
34 Bto K sq Rto B6 
35 QtoB2 Bto Kt 4 
36 BtoB2 RtoB 5 (K 
37 QRto K RtoQsq (?)(L) 
38 Bto Kt sq QtoR4 
39 BtoK3 R to Kt 5 
40 Rt.R Qt R 
41 Rto Kt2 Q te R 5 (!) 
42 Bt. B Q to K 8 ch 
43 B to B sq Rt. P (M) 
44PtoQkR3 Rt. KP 
45 QtoQ2 QtoRSd 
46 Bto Kt2 R to K 8 ch 
47 Bto B sy Q to K 5 ch 
48 Qto B2 Q to B6 
49 Rto Kt3 Qto Bs 
50 RtoQB3 Q to R8 
51 K to R sq R to Kt 8 
52 QtoQ Kt 2 PtoKR4 
53 PteQR4 P to K Kt 4 
54 P to Kt 5 QtoK 5 
55 RtoB4a Q t. R (!) (N) 
56 QtoR8 ch K to R 2 
57 P to Kt 6, mate 

(A) P to K 3 is now generally 
preferred. 

(B) It would have been better 
to exchange Pawns and play B to 
Kt 5 ch. 

(C) Hither P to B 4 or B to Kt 
5 seems preferable. 

(D) There is no sufficient motive 
for this move. Black should hasten 
his development by 6 B to K 2. 

E) Black cannot save the Pawn, 
and he takes the best course under 
the circumstances to free his game. 

(F) Threatening to regain the 
Pawn by 26 Q to K 3. 

(G) Guarding one of the threat- 
ened Pawns, and preparatory, no 
doubt, to Q to RK 3 to force the 
change of Queens. But the Rook 
was well posted at Queen’s square, 
and 26 K to Kt square would have 
answered all purposes as well. 

(H) 29 QRto K Bsq seems the 

correct move, and is certainly better 
than the one actually made. 

(1) Well played. This move, if 
properly followed up, should have 
at least equalised the game. 

(J) 38 R to Kt sq would have 
been better, but White has by no 
means an easy game to play, e.g. : 

33 R to Kt sq Rto B5 
34 Bto K sq BtoB3 
(34 B to Q 2, R to B 7) 

35 BtoB2 Rt. B 
(85 B to Q 2 or Kt 3, Qt. P) 
36 Rt. R Qt. P, with 

the advantage. 

(K) Here Black misses the right 
continuation, 36.... Rto B6, after 
which White would have had con- 
siderable difficulty in saving the 

game, e.g. : 
ee R to B6 (!) 
87 Qt. R,or(A) QtR 

38 Q to B2 (best) Rt. P 

389 Qt. Q Rt. Q 

40 Bto Kt 3 B to B 3, 

with the better game, 

A. 

387 Qto Kt 2 Rt KP 

38 K R to K sq 

(If; 

38 Q KR to K sq R to B 8 ch 

39 Qor Rt. KR Rt. R, and 
wins. 

(If: 

88 Qt KR Rt R 

39 BtoKt3 orKtsq Rt. KRP, and 
should win.) 

SB cas RtR 

39 Rt. R QtoB4ch 

40 K to Raq R to B 7, and 
wins. 

(L) A blunder, 
(M): 
43 () t. Kt P ch 

44 Q to Kt 2 (best) Rt. P (1) 
would have afforded Black a better 
chance of a draw. 

(N) Jumping at the bait, but of 
course the ultimate loss of the 
game could not be avoided. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

316 A SELECTION OF GAMBS PLAYED IN THE 

Game 247, 
SICILIAN. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
W.M. Gartiz. C. von BARDELEBEN. 46 BtoR6 Rto Kt 7 
1PtoK4 PtoQB4 47 RtoK Kt7 Rtokts 
2 KttoQB3 Kt toQB3 48 K to K 2 R to Q 3 (O) 
3 KttoB3 PtoK3 49 BtoB4 RtoR3 
4PtcQ4 PtP 50 KtoK 3 K to Bsq 
5 Ktt. P Kt toB3 51 BtoR6 K to K sq 
6 Kt t. Kt Kt Pt. Kt 52 KtoQ4 R to Kt 3 
7PtoK5 Kt to Q 4 58 KtoK 5 RtoR38 
8 KttoK 4 PtoK B4 54 Bto K 3 K to Bsq 
9 Kt to Q 6 ch Bt. Kt 55 R to Kt 7 RtoR4ch 

10 Pt. B Castles 56 K to B6 Rto R38 ch 
+. Bto K 2 . Qto R4ch(A) 57 Rto Kt 6 Resigns. 
2QtwQ2 Q to B4(C . ‘ 
13 oe BIC) une ) (A) The opening moves have 
14 PtQKt4 QtoKt3(E) been accurately played by both 
15 PtoBs Q to Q sq een At this point opinions are 
17 Castles B to Kt 2 the move in the text. 
18 Bto Kt 2 PtoK5 (B) Best. 12 P toB 3 is ob- 
19 Q to Kt 5 Kt to K sq jectionable because White’s object 
20 BtoB4ch K to R sq is to play this Pawn two squares as 
21 QtoK 7 Kt to B3 soon as possible, and 12 B to Q 2 
22 QRtoQsq(G) ( to K sq(H) would be met by 12 .... QtoB 
23 B yagi ae ry 4, winning the Queen’s Pawn. 
24 Qt. B(J) to Q2 , 
9 OM A ARO eg Ag ese 
26 PtoKts K RtoQBsq have exchanged Queens, although 
27 BtoR3 QRtoKtsqy(K) = White would still, I think, have 
23 QRtoKtsy KtoKtsq (L) had a slight advant 
29 Pt. P Rt. P Niet 
80 Rt.R Kt t. R (D) If 13 Castles, Black replies 
31 R to Kt sq Kt to Q2 with 13..... Kt to B 3, winning 
32 Rto Kt 7 Kt t. P (M) the Queen’s Pawn, 
33 RtoQB7 Rt. P (E) The Queen has no better 
34 K to B sq RtoQsb course than to retreat. Of course, 
35 Bt. Kt KtP =- if 14.... QtoK 4, 15 B to Kt 
ae we oe 2,and 16 Castles K R. 

to to B aq (F) Essential ; for Black threat- 
nay ears ened 16 .... PtoQR4. 
40 RtoR5 P toR 4(N) (G) Good enough to win; but 
41 Rt. P P to Kt 3 22 Q to K 5, followed by 23 R 
42 RtoBd RtoR5 to R 3, if the Black Knight re- 
43 RtoB7 RtoR8ch turned to King’s square, would have 
44 K to K 2 Rto R7ch brought about an earlier issue. 
45 K to K aq K to K sq (H) If 22.... BR to K aq, 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM 

White exchanges Queens, and 
should ultimately force the game 
on the Queen’s side. The move 
seems preferable, however, to that 

actually made. 
(I) Best. If:. 
SB as 

27 Kt. B, and wins. 
(J) 24 B t. Kt was slightly 

better. 

(K) If 27.... Pt. P, 28 Pt. 
P, Kt t. P, 29 PtoQ7, &e. 

(L) If: 
ot 

then: 
29 Rt. P 

White. 
C. vor BaRpELEeBEN, 

1PtcQ4 

oe 
Why rs 
to 

~ 
i 
AUVORKORAD 

Soowswss: 

—_ 
o 
-~ 

n- 

20 Qt. 

Pt. P, 

R t. R, or (A) 

TOURNAMENT. 317 
30 Pt. R Kt t. P 
31 Bt. Kt Rt.B 
382 PtoQ7 RtQ4 
33 R to B sq, and wins. 
A. 
ee K to Kt sq 
30 R to Baq RtoB3 
31 Rt. Reh, 

and the position is the same as in 
the actual game. 

(M) Black cannot avoid the loss 
of a piece. 

(N) If 40.... PtoB5, 41 P 
t. P, Pt. P, 42 R to K B 4 
ch, &e. 

(O) Black fights on bravely to 
the end. Of course if White pla 
49 K to K 3, the Black Hook 
checks at Queen’s sixth, and the 
King must return to King’s second. 

Game 248. 
QUEEN’S GAMBIT. 

Black. 

J. L. Mrycary, 

Pi BB Oe BR Ob 
fy 
RAST Ta 

= 

ct co 

White. Black, 
22 Qt. Kt Bt. Kt (E) 
23 QtoKt4(!) BtB 
24 KttoRGch KtoBsq 
25 Qt.Q Pt. Kt 
26 RtB 

And after a few more moves, Black 
resigned, 

(A) Isolating his Queen's Pawn 
to no purpose. He should rather 
have developed his Queen's Knight. 

(B) Preferring to concentrate 
his forces, perhaps somewhat pre- 
maturely, against the Queen’s Pawn. 

(C) Well played. Black deter- 
mines upon a counter-mancuvre 
in place of further supporting his 
Pawn. 

(D) Very hazardous, and ques- 
tionably sound. 

(E) Disastrous. I am disposed 
to think that Black might have 
equalised the game by 22....P 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

318 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

toQ5. If23 Rt. P, Bt R,24Q 
to Kt 4,Q to B 3, and Black should 
win. If: 

23 Q to Kt 4 Q to B3 

24 Kt to K 4 

(If 24 P to K 4 or P to B 3, then 
24.... Pt. Kt) 

24... Qt R 

(24....Qt. Kt(?), 25 Qt. Q, and 
26 Kt to K 7 ch) 

25 Kt to R 6ch 

Black may now apparently play for 
a draw by 25....K to R sq, for 
if White continue with: 

29 Bt. P Q to B3, &e. 

If, however, Black play 25....K 
to B sq, then: 

26 BtoR3 ch RtoB4 
(26....RtoK 2,27 KttoK B 5) 
27 Ktt. R Q Kt P t. Kt 
28 R to Q B sq Qt.RP 

29 Bt. P ch Rto K 2 

30 Bt, R ch Kt. B 

31 Kt to B 5 ch, 

with a clear advantage. It is by 
no means asserted that the moves 
given are the best on either side ; 
and the above variations are merely 
suggested with the view of inviting 

26 Ktt. Pch K to Kt sq attention to some of the interesting 
27 Ktt. B Rt. Kt possibilities in which this compli- 
28 Kt to B 6 ch K to R sq cated position abounds, 
Game 249, 
SICILIAN. 

White. Black. White. Black 
B, W. Fisugr, G. A. MacDonnetr. 24 K Kt t. P (!) Kitt. Kt P 
1PtoK 4 PtoQB4 25 Rt. Rech Qt.R 
2PtoK B4(A) KttoQB3 26 K Kt toB3 Kt t. Kt 
3 QKttoB3 PtoK3 27 Kt. Kt Q to KR 4 ch 
4 KttoB3 PtoQ4 28 K to B2 Q to R7 ch 
5 PtoK 5 P to B 4(?)(B) 29 R to Kt 2 QtoR8 
6 Bto Kt 5 BtoQ2 30 Q to B sq Q to R sq 
7 Bt. Kt P t. B(C) 31 K to Kt sq Q to Q sy 
8 Pte Q3 BtoK 2 32 QtoK 3 QtoR4 
9 Kt to K 2 Kt toR 3 33 QtoK B2 K to Q 2 (G) 
10 BtoQ2 R to Q Kt sq 34 Bto K 38 Qto B2 
ll PtoQ Kt3 Kt to B2 35 Bt. P Qt. P 
12 PtoB4 Bt QBs 36 Bt. P R to Q sq (H) 
13 Kt to B38 K toQ2(?)(D) 37 B to Kt 6 R to QR sq?) 
14 KttoQR4 toQs5 38 BtoQ4 QtoR4 
15 Q to Bsq R to Kt sq 39 KttoKt6ch KtoB2 
16 QtoR3 Q to B 40 Kt t. R ch Bt. Kt 
17 Pto Kt 3 B to Kt 2 41 QtoK 3 Pio B4 
18 KtoK2(E) PtKR3 42 Bto K 5 ch K toQ2 
19 PtoR4 KtoBsq(?)( F) 43 Rto K 2 Q to Kt 3 
20 QRtoK Ktsq Pto Kt 4 44 P to Q4(!) Qto B83 
21 RPtP PtP 45 P to Q 5 (!) Et 
2 PtP Q to Kt 2 46 Pt. P Qto K Kt 3 
23 BtoB4 RtoK BR sq 47 BbtoBa QtoR2 

| fron 

NIVERSITY 

ir 

PRINCETON U 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 319 

White. Black. 
48 QtoK6ch KtoQsy 
49 Rto R2 Q to Kt 2 
50 BtoK 5 Resigns. (I) 

[The notes are by the Editor. ) 

(A) An old-fashioned way of 
meeting the Sicilian, which should 
not result in a good game. 

(B) A move that is bad on prin- 
ciple, as it leaves the Black King’s 
Pawn weak and the White King’s 
Pawn safe from attack. 

(C) It would here be better to 
take with the Bishop. As White's 
Pawn is not advanced to Queen's 
fourth, Black cannot get rid of the 
doubled Pawn. 

(D) It is impossible to find any 
reason for this most bizarre move. 
The King may be safe from any 
direct attack, and probably Mr. 
MacDonnell Niakeuuteted pushing 
forward his Pawns on the King’s 
side if White Castled in front of 
them ; the only result, however, is 
to club the Queen’s pieces imex- 

tricably, and to prevent Black 
opening the Queen’s file. 

(E) White shows good judg- 
ment in not Custling in such a 
position. 

(F) Even more inexplicable than 
move 13; it serves no purpose but 
to shut in his own Queen’s Rook. 

(G) Returning whence he went 
on his fruitless errand. 

(H) The purposeless manceurres 
of Black throughout this game are 
very unlike Mr. MacDonnell’s best 
play. His next move is an abso- 
lute blunder, throwing away the 
exchange. 386 R to K Ktsq seems 
best. 

(I) I should have hesitated to 
include this game in my selection, 
but it was sent to me by Mr. 
Fisher, the winner of the second 
prize, of whose games I have been 
able to find so few specimens, that 
I could not omit one won by him 
from so doughty an antagonist, 
although it is quite unworthy of 
Mr. MacDonnell’s ssenocieleed 
Chess skill. 

——ee——— 

Came 250, 
FRENCH OPENING. 

White Black. 
C. E, Raykex B. W. Fister. 
1PtoK 4 Pto K 38 
2 PtoQ4 P to Q 4 
3 KttoQB3 KttoK B3 
4 Pt. Pt. P 
5 KttoB3 Bt Q3 
6 BtoQ3 Pto B38 
7 Castles Castles 
8 Bto K Kt5(A) Bto K Kt5 
9 PtooK RS B to R 4 (B) 
10 Pto K Kt 4 Bto Kt 3 
ll Ktto K 5 Q to Kt 3(C) 
12 Kt to K 2 Bt. Kt (D) 
13 Pt. B Kt to K 5 

White. Black. 
14 BtoK3 Q to B 2(E) 
15 PtoK B3 PtoQs 
16 Bt. P Kt to Kt 4 
17Pt.KB4 BtB 
18 Qt. B Kt to K 8 
19 BtoB3 Kt to Q2 
20 QR to K sq(F) QR to Q sy 
21 PtoBS5 Kt to Kt 3 
22 QtoB3(G) KttoKt4 
23 Q to Kt 2 Kt to Q 4 
24 B to Q 2 PtoKR3 
2 PtoKR4 KttoR2 
2% Pt.QB4 Kt to K 2 
27 BtoB3 P to KKtA(H) 
Jriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

320 A 

White. 
23 RPtP 
29 Kt to B4 
30 KtoR2 
31 KttoR5 
82 QtoK 4 
83 Q to B 4 

34 Kt to B 6 ch 

35 K to Kt 2 
36 Qt. Kt (!) 

Black. 
Kt (R 2) t.P 
Qto Kt3eh(I) 
QtoB4 
Kt to R 2 
P to Kt 4 
Kt to Kt 4 
K to R sq 
Kt to Kt sq 
Resigns. 

e notes are by the Rey. C. E. 
ea Ranken. 

(A) 8 Ktto K2 mayalsobeplayed 
here, with the probable continua- 
tion 8 Bto K Kt 5, 9 Kt to Kt 3, 
Kt to R 4 (this seems better than 
Q to B 2 as adopted in the Mason 
and Potter match), 10 P to K R 3, 
Kt t. Kt, 11 Pt. Kt, Bto R 4, 12 
P to K Kt 4, B to Kt 3, &e. 

(B) Losing too much time; the 
Knight should be taken, followed 
by Q Kt to Q 2 and Q to B2. 

(C) It is not easy to say what 

SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

was Black’s proper course. PtoQ 
B 4 would be perhaps the most ag- 
gressive, and B to K 2 the safest. 

(D) An error of judgment ; he 
could not with advantage take the 
Queen's Knight’s Pawn, but Q Kt 
to Q 2 ought no longer to have 
been delayed, more especially be- 
cause White could not support his 
Knight by P to K B 4. 

(E) If 14....Qt. P, White gets 
a fine game by PtoK B4and R 
to Kt sq. 

(F) P to B 5 at once is probably 
stronger. 

(G@) And here Q to Kt 3 is pre- 
ferable. 

(H) A desperate effort to stop 
the advance of the Pawns, but it 
leaves his King too much exposed. 

(1) Black's best resource appears 
to be 29 K to R2 and 30 Kt to 
Kt sq; his game, however, is too 
bad for a permanent cure, 

Game 251. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

T. H. Pirer. B. W. Fisner. 
1KttoKB3 PtoQKt3(A) 
2PtoK;: B to Kt 2 
3 PtoQ4 PtoK 3 
4PtoQB4 KttoK BS 
5 Kt to B38 B to Kt 6 (?) 
6BtwoQ3 PtoBé4 
7 Castles Pt. P (?) 
plat ag K Bt. Kt 
9PtB Castles 
10 Bto Kt5(B) PtoK R3(?) 

(C 
11 BtoR4 P5Q4(?)(D) 
12 KttoK 5 PEP 
13 Bt. P Kt to B3 
14 Ktto Kt4('!) KttoQR4 
15 Kt t. Kt ch P t. Kt 

White. Black. 
16 QtoKt4ch KtoR sq 
17 Q to B4 (!) K to Kt 2 
18 BtoQ3 Rto K Kt sq 
(?) (E) 
19 Q Rto K sq Kt to B3 
20 RtoK 3 PtoK 4 
21 RtoKt3ch Resigns, 

[The notes are by the Editor.] 

(A) The Queen’s Fianchetto 
does not seem the best way of 
meeting this Opening. 

(B) In consequence of Black's 
feeble opening White has an ex- 
cellent game, After the unfavour- 
able exchan of his King’s 
Bishop for the Knight this pin 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 321 

becomes very serious, and should 
not have been permitted. 

(C) Very weak, as he would 
dangerously expose his King by 
playing on the Knight's Pawn. 

(D) Under the circumstances 
11 P to Q 3 would have been 

much better. Mr. Piper takes ex- 
cellent advantage of Black’s weak 
play. 

(E) Probably no play could save 
the game, but this gives White 
time to bring a Rook to the attack 
with fatal effect. 

Game 252. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 

B. W. Fisger. C. J. Lawpert. 
1PtK4 P to K 3 (A) 
2PtoQ4 ' PoQgs 

3 PtP PtP 
4Bt0.Q3 K Kt toB3 
5 K KttoB3 BtQ3 

6 Castles Castles 

7 KttoB3 Kt to B3 

8 Kt to K 2 Bto K Kt 5 
9 Kt to Kt 3 Bt. Ktat B3 
10 Pt. B Kt t. P (B) 
11 Bt. Pch Kt t. B 
12 Qt. Kt PtoQB4 
13 QtoK Kt4 Bt.Kt 
14K Pt.B PtoB4 
15 Qto RS QtwoB3 
16 K to Kt 2 QtoB2 

17 QtoR8 Q R to K sq 
18 BtoB4 RtoK 3 
19 QR to K sq K R to K sq 
20 Q to R sy Rto K 7 
2LRLR Rt. Ek 
22 R to B sq PtcQsd 
23 Q to Q sq Q to B 5 (C) 
24 P to Kt3 QtoR3 
25 PtoR4 R to K sq 
26 Pto B38 P to Q 6 (D) 
27 PtoB4 P to K Kt 4 
28 Bto K 3 Qt.Q3 
29 Q to Q2 P to Kt 5 
30 Q to Q sq QtwQB3 
31 KtoBsq(!) RtoQsq 
82 KtoKsq(!) Qto K sq (E) 
33 K to Q2 Q to K 4 
34 RtoB3 Kt to B3 
35 Rt. P Rt. Rech 

White. Black. 
36 Kt.R PiP 
37 Qt.P Kt toK 5 
38 QtoR5 Q to B 6 ch 
39 KtoK 2 Q to B7ch 
40 K to Bsq Q to Q 6ch 
41 K to Kt 2 Q to Q2 (F) 
42 QtoKt6ch KtoBsq 
43 KtoB3 QtoK B2 
44 Qto R6ch(G) K to K 2 
45 QtoR8 P to Kt 3 
46 QtoQ K8 K toB3 
47 Qto B6ch K to K 2 
48 BtoB4 Q to R4ch 
49 K to Kt 2 Q to B2 
50 P to B 3 (!) Kt to B 3 (H) 
51 B to Kt 5 QtoK 3 
52 Qt.Q K t.Q 
53 Bt. Kt Kt.B 
54 K to B 2, and wins. 

[The notes are by the Editor.] 

(A) Both Messrs. Lambert and 
Fisher, as second players, adopted 
the French Game throughout the 
Tournament, and are both well 
acquainted with all the forms of 
this dull Opening, which more than 
any other leads naturally to drawn 
positions, where victory can only 

scored by the opponent's 
blunder. 

(B) The variation here adopted 
by Mr. Lambert can give no advan- 
tage whatever, either in material 
or position. 

(C) Black’s apparent advantage 
of position is illusory. It is clear 

¥ 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

§22 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

he could not defend the Rook by 
Queen on the King’s file without 
losing the exchange. 

(D) This advanced Pawn will 
become subject to attack, and will 
probably fall and entail the loss of 
the game. It would have been 
better to exchange. 

(E) This only compels the King 
to go where he intended. The 
Queen’s Pawn must now soon fall. 
White has played with great judg- 
ment from his 27th move. 

(F) Taking the Queen’s Knight 

and Bishop's Pawn would have lost 
more speedily. By protecting his 
own King’s Bishop’s Pawn he ean 
still fight for the draw. 

(G) Had White here changed 
Queens Black would have had a 
fair chance of drawing the game. 

(H) Forced: if 50 Kt to B 6, 
White wins the Knight in two 
moves by 51 Q to Q 6 ch, and 52 
Qto K dch, As it is, White forces 
the exchange of both the remaining 
pieces, and the extra Pawn theu 
wins, of course. 

— ee 
Game 253. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White Black. White. Black. 

H. Lex. B. W. Fister. 29 PtoK Kt4(1) KRtoQBsy 
1PtK4 PtoK3 30 PtoBSd Kt Pt. P(J) 
2PtoQ4 PtoQ4 81 KttoKtich Kto Kt2 
3 Q KttoB3 K KttoB3 32 Ktt. BP K t. Kt 
4BtoK Kti BtoK2 33 Qt. P RtoKKtsq( K) 
5 PtoK5(A) KKttoQ2 34 P to Kt 5 Kt to Q2 
6 Bt B Qt.B 35 QtoR7 ch K to B sq 
7 QtoQ2 Kt to Kt 3 36 P to Kt 6 Ett. 

8 PtoB4é BtoQ2 37 Pt. Kt Qto B 4ch(L) 
9 Kt to Q sq PtoQB4 38 K to B sq QtoK 2 
10 PtoB3 Kt to B3 39 Qto R 6 ch Q to Kt 2 
ll KttoB3 R to Q Bsq 40 QtoR4 Q t. K P, and 
12 Bto Q 3(B) Pt. P wins. 
« in 
- Beotil ruGe 3(C) [The notes are by the Editor, } 
15 KttoB3 Ktt. B (A) The exchange of the Bisho 
16 Qt. Kt Q to Kt 5 for the King’s Knight before ad- 
17 KRtoQBsq(?D)Q t. Kt P vancing the King’s Pawn seems to 
18 QRtoKtsqg QtoR6 rive the best form of attack in this 
19 Rto B 2 (E) -: to _ 5 (!) dinll Opening. 
20 K Rto B sq to Kt 4 B Qj 
21 QtoB2(F) Castles ‘see, 12 B to K 2 is probably 
22 Kto Kt3 QtoR4 . A : 
98 Kt to Kt 5 P to Kt 3 (C) Threatening to win the ex- 
24 Qto B2 PtoR3 change after changing Knight for 
25 Kt to B3 BtoRS Bishop. 
26 QtoR4(G) KtoR2 (D) Mr. Lee is a very ingenious 
27 QtoR3(H) BtR and attacking player, but he must 
28 Pt. B Rio B3 have failed to look into the posi- 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 323 

tion carefully, or he would have 
seen that the Queen's Knight's 
Pawn cannot be left unguarded, 
The attack on the Queen that fol- 
lows the capture is quite illusory. 

(E) It is impossible to find a 
satisfactory move. The one in the 
text is not good, but I have failed 
to find any that is so. 19 QtoQ 
2, Kt to B 5, 20 Q to K sq seems 
to be the least objectionable. 

(F) 21 Q to Q 2, and if Kt to 
B 5, 22 Qto K sq were certain] 
better than the text move, whic 
leaves the Knight pinned. 

(G) The game being hopeless, 
White attempts a futile attack on 
the King, which can come to 
nothing. 

(H) The cheek with the Knight 
is evidently useless. This move 
indirectly guards the Queen’s 
Knight. 

(I) This and the following move 
are mere desperation. 

(J) Mr. Fisher carries caution to 
excess; there was no objection to 
taking the Queen’s Knight with 
Rook, as White would be mated 
before he could make anything of 
his reckless attack, 

(K) A wise precaution that de- 
stroys all possibility of success to 
White's onslaught. 

(L) 37 Qto B2 at once would 
have saved time, 

—_— ot 

Game 254, 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

F. S. Ensorn. B. W. Fisuer. 
1K KttoB3 Q Ktto B3(?) 
2PwoQ4 PtoQ 4 
3 PtoB4 PtokK 3 
4PtoB5 Kt toB3 
5 KttoB3 Bto K 2 
6 BtoB4(?)(A) KttoK R4 
7 Bto Kt3 BtoB3 
8KtteeQKt5 KttB 
9RPt. Kt P to K 4 
10 Pt. P Ktt. P 
11 Qt. P (B) Kt t. Kt ch 
12 Kt Pt. Kt Bt. P 
13 Qt. Q ch K t.Q 
14 R to Q sq ch K to K 2 
15 Bto Kt 2 PtoQB3 
16 KttoQé6 BtoQR6 
17 RtoQ Kts PtoQ Kt4 
18 Pt. Pep. (C) Kt. Kt 
19 P to Kt? R to Q Kt sq 
20 Pt. B becomes Q Rt. Kt 

Kt ch 
21 PtoB4 PtoQR4 
22 KtoQ2 Ptoh3 

White. Black. 

23 Rto Kt3 BtoB4 
24 PtoK 3 R to Q Kt sq 
25 R to Q 3 ch K to B2 
26 R to QB sq R to Kt 7 ch 
27 KtoKsq(?)(D) K to Kt 3 
28 PtoR3(E) PtoRS 

29 QRtoB3 R to Kt 4 
30 P to Kt 4 PtoB3 

31 P to K 4(?)(F) R to K sq 
32 K to B sq RtoK 3 
33 K to Ktsq(?) RtoQ3 
34 PtoK 5 PtP 

35 Pt. P RtoK 3 
36 R to K sq R to Kt 7 
37 Rw B3 B to Q 5 (G) 
38 RtoB7 Rt. K P 
39 RB to Q sq BtoB4 
40 KRtoQ7 Bt. R P (H) 
41 RtP R to K Kt 4 
42 RtoK R7 R t. Kt P 
43 Rt. P RtoB7 
44 RtoQ3 B to Kt 5 
45 BR to Q sq PtoR 6 
46 R to Q BR sq K to Kt 4 

oinal trom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

324 A BELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

White. Black. 
47 Rt B6 K to R 5 (?) 
48 K to Bsq K Rto QBS 
49 Bto B3 KtoR4 
50 Bto K 2 RtoB4 
51 RtoQ6 R to B 8 ch 
52 RtoQsq Rt.R(Q sq) ch 
53 Bt. R Rto B6 
54 K to K 2 Rto RG 
55 BtoB2 R to BR 7 (?) 
56 BtoK 4 P to B4 
57 BtoQ5 K to Kt 4 
58 R to Q B sq RtoR5 
59 BtoR2 Pto Bd 
60 RtoB2 Rto K 5 ch 
61 K to B3 RtoQ5 
62 K to K 2 BtoB4 
63 Pto B38 K to Kt 5 
64 K to K sq RtoR5 
65 Kto K 2 Rto R7 ch 
66 K to Q sq R to R8 ch 
67 Kto K 2 PtoB6 
68 B to K 6 (I) BtoQ3 
69 BtoQ5 B to Bd 
70 BtoR2 BtoBs8 
71 BwQs5 Bto Kt 7 
72 PtoBs KtoB4 
73 Bto Kt 3 K toQ 5 . 
74 K to B3 (J) Rt QBs 
75 RtoK2(K) RtoB8ch(L) 
76 K to Kt 3 Bt B8 

77 RtoQR2(M) BtoKt7(!)(¥) 
78 K to Kt 4 R toQ R8 (') 
Resigns. (O) 

[The notes are by the Editor.] 

(A) A mistaken sally, which ena- 
bles Black at once to free his King’s 
Knight and Bishop, and so escape 
from the trammels of his incorrect 
Opening. 6 P to K 3 was the 
right move. 

(B) This move only results in a 
series of exchanges, and a pre- 
mature break up of the position, 
before White has developed at all 
on his King’s side. It was, how- 
ever, almost a necessary result of 
the previous play. 

(C) This is ingeniously played, 
and White recovers the piece sacri- 

ficed without loss, but at the same 
time without advantage. The fol- 
lowing line of play seems sound 
and better: 

18 PtoK B4 B to Q2 

19 KttoK 4 PtoB4 

20 R to Kt 3 P to Kt 5 

21 Kt to Kt 5 PtoR3 

22 Kt to B 3, followed by Kt to K 
5, with a good game. 

If: 

90 53,3 BtoB8 

21 Castles P t. Kt 

92 Rt. B, and Black's King’s Pawn 
is lost. 

(D) Interposing the Rook was 
safer. The move made endangers 
the Queen’s Rook’s Pawn, after the 
loss of which White can only play 
for a draw, with many chances of 
defeat. 

(E) To prevent the check of the 
Bishop. ‘The Pawn can now be 
stopped, and its ultimate loss be 
caleulated on. 

(F) The advance of this Pawn is 
weak. Considering the inherent 
weakness of his Queen’s side, White 
should have taken the opportunity 
that was here open for forcing an 
immediate draw : 

31 B to B sq RtoR4 
82 RtoKtsqyech KtoB2 
33 R(Kt sq) toBsq KtoKt3orQ3 
34 R to Kt sq or Q 
sq ch, &e. 
(G) Black has taken full ad- 

vantage of some weak moves, and 
must now win the centre Pawn. 

(H) The gain of a Pawn on the 
King’s side in no way makes up to 
White for the loss of this impor- 
tant Pawn. With two passed 
Pawns Black can now play to win, 
in spite of the Bishops of opposite 
colours. 

(1) 68 K to Q3 seems to offer 
better hopes ofa draw. If: 

Bisiks R to Q8 ch 

| if | 

PRINCETON u NIVE RSIT t 

VIZAYANAGARAM 
69 Kto K2 RtoQs5 
70 BtoK6 RtoQ 3 

71 Bto R2,and Black is no nearer 
his object. 

(J) Here 74 P to B 5 would not 
save the game: 

TOURNAMENT, 325 

is very neat, and equally wins by 
force. 

(M) Hoping to get the Rook’s 
Pawn and draw, if Black takes 
Bishop’s Pawn with either Bishop 
or Rook. 

(N) Black finishes off the game 

‘eee ! 
75 BtoK6 ti oo © very neatly. Having shut up the 
76 Kt Q3 R t. P, wins. Rook he can win in any way, but 
(K) 75 B to B2 is no better: he winds up like an artist. 
75 PtoB? 0) (O) For if: 
76 PioBS RwGiwe -coocey” pone 
(L) 75 P to B 7, as in the pre- 81 PtoBG B to Kt 7 
ceding variation, would win, but 82 PtoB?7 B to K 6, and 
Mr. Fisher’s plan of operations wins. 
—__+e— 
Game 255. 
ENGLISH OPENING. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
G., A. MacDoyyety. G. I. D. Gosstr. 26 K to Kt sq Bt.R 
1PwQB4 PtoK3 27 Bt.B Qto K8ch(G) 
2KttoQB3 KttoKB3 Resigus. 
3 Pt K3 PtoQ4 
4PtQ4 B rn Na 5 [The notes are by the Editor.] 
5 BtoQ2 Castles (A) White would have done far 
6 KttoB3 Pto B4 better to Castle, rather than seek 
: “Se OBO -- . 3 for attack, while his own King is 
0 §q . exposed. 
9 BLE Kt to BS ‘ (B) 15 P to K R 5 would have 
10 PtoQR3 PtoQ Kt3 b : th hi 
11 QtoB2 B to Kt 2 een more consistent with his pre- 
vious play, and better than this 
12 Ke to E 4 Kt to K 2 move, which leaves Black the 
14 PwKR4(A)BwQs, aden 
15 Bto B 3 (?) (B) Bt. Ktat Kt3 (C) Even now 17 P to R 5 would 
16 Pt.B Q to B2 (1) have been less disastrous. 
a lee (C) a eae (D) Too late, 
19 PtoR 5D) B t 2 ) (E) White's osition is so forlorn 
a that it is difficult to suggest a good 
20 BtoQ4 B to Kt 5 move. The one made lose i 
21 Rto K sq(?) (E)Q BR to B sq Paes Pett eee 
22 PtoR4(?)(F)PtoK4 (F) Saving one Bishop to lose 
23 Bt. Kt P PtB the other. 
24 Q to Kt 3 RtoB3 (G) Mr. Gossip has taken full 
25 RtoK2 R to B3ch advantage of bis fine position. 

| from 
NIVERSITY 

if 

PRINCETON U 

326 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 
Game 256. 
TRREGULAR OPENING. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
C.J. Lampert. G, A. MacDonneELt. 29 Rto Q Bsq (F) Ktt.B 
1 KttoK B3 PtoQ4 30 Qt. QBP BRtP 
2Pt.Q4 PtoK 3 31 Qt.Q Rt.Q 
3 PtoK 3 Ktto K B3 32 K to Beq RtoQ8ch 
4BtoK2(A) PtQKt3 33 RtR Kt t.R 
5PtoQKt3 BtoKt2 34 K to K 2 Kt to Kt 7 
6 Bto Kt 2 BtoQ3 35 K to B3 Kt to B5 
7 Castles Q Kt to Q2 36 PtoK4 Ktt.P 
8 Pt QB4(B) RtoQBsq Resigns 
a EE OB 4 Rad RS [Notes from the Morning Post.) 
11 BtoQ3 Kt to K 5 (A) Bto Q 3,as played by Zuker- 
12 QtoK2 PtoKB4 tort against Blackburne, is much 
13 PtoQR3 PtcQB3 better. 
14 PtoQ Kt4 B to Q Kt sq (B) This advance seems now to 
15 Rto B2 Rto B3 be useless. Black might have taken 
16 Pt.P K Pt.P the Pawn with the superior posi- 
17 Bt. P(C) BtB tion. 
18 Qt. B Kt t. Kt (C) The sacrifice of this Pawn 
19 Re. Kt PtoQ Kt 4 was an ingenious trap, from the 
20K RtBsq KttoKkts effects of falling into which White 
PEE. NS (D) Well played. Black threatens 
2 QRtQB2 KttoBs5 PR ae du by Rt Q B2 
24 QtoR?7 PtoQ B4(D) igh kta nt “ 
25 RtoQsq(E) RtoQB2 (E) The only move to save the 
26 Rt.P t.R game. 
27 QtoKt8ch KtoB2 (F) To prevent mate. It was 
28 Qt.Reh K to Kt 3 impossible to save the Bishop. 
———064-e 
Game 257. 
RUY LOPEZ. 
White Black. White. Black. 
C, E, RayKEN. 1, GuyspeRG. 8 Pt. Kt Kt Pt. P 
1PtoK4 P to K 4 9 B to K 2(B) Pt. Kt 
2 KttoK B3 Kt to QB3 10 Bt. P PtoQ4 
3 Bto Kt5 KttoB3 1l PtoQ4 R to K sq 
4 KttoB3 B to Kt 5 12 BtoK 3 PtoK B4 
5 Castles Castles 138 Pte B38 BtoQ3 
6 KttoQs5 Kt t. Kt 14 QtoQ2 R to Q Kt sq 
7 Pt. Kt P to K 5 (A) 15 PtoQ kt4(C) BtoR3 

= 
inal Tron 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

White. 
16 K Rt K sy 

19 Q 

SE8 

COI 
HAR POOR CSCOORORO VUES 

co tS tS bo tS 
ssererrserss 
im o> * 

oe + 

oroef 
ss 

m 
-~ 
— 

ssr 
bt AR 
me 

oc 
wns 

oo co 09 65 0 69 
I tm 
» 

J) 
SSk 
a> Ra) 
oe 

cs 

— 

O 
*sssecss 

OnRoOR 
ad BoB Bs) 

twowwo 

on 
or 

S"sssssgssss 

PRA TOR Rone 

SLSSHSSERSSEEE 
ARUN RRR RRR OF 
os 

orem” 

a 

B 
Fan ndioaan ea adie 

Sse "ssssss 

VIZAYANAGARAM 

Black. 
Qt Bs 
Bt. B 
P to Kt 4(D) 

+> 
Ss 

po Fi TT 
ow 
o 
i — 

ssoer 
Wie Sf 

7 

svessces 
=) 
ww 

QAR eRe ePORSS RNAS 
es 
De eg Oe pe oO 
Bg? ahha 

ST SSSSSSES 
2 
3 

ROR TODOS RO ROP Ae 

-~ 
S 
wren Nwrworak 

oma 
2 
_ 

TOURNAMENT. 327 

[The notes are by the Rev, C. E. 
Ranken. | 

(A) A novelty, the merits of 
which further testing must decide. 

(B) Much better than either B 
t. P, Q to K 2, or Kt to Q 4; the 
Bishop, however, may retire to 
Rook’s fourth with at least equal 
advantage. 

(C) An important move for the 
end-game, preventing Black from 
undoubling his Pawns, 

(D) Mr. Gunsberg afterwards 
thought the advance of this Pawn 
weak ; it leaves White at any rate 
but one reply to avoid the loss of 
a piece. 

(E) The exchanges have been in 
White’s favour, and he has now 
rather the best of it, but, owing to 
his opponent’s accurate defence, 
the advantage comes to nothing. 
The maneuvring for position from 
this point is very interesting. 

(F) A crucial experiment. Black 
had a safe draw by simply moving 
about his King, and in venturing 
on the exchange of Queens he ap- 
parently incurred not a little risk. 
With proper play, however, there 
was no r, as White could 
never break through. 

(G) For the sake of young players 
we may observe that had Black 
now taken the Pawn he would have 
lost the game. 

(H) P to B 5 yields no better 
result. 

ir 3/ Aro 1 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

328 A SELECTION OP GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

Game 258. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

T. Guysnera. T, H, Preen. 
1PtoQ4 PtoK3 
2KttoKB3 PtoQé4 
3 PtoK 3 KttoK B3 
4BtoK2 Bto K 2 
5 Castles Castles 
6PtoB4 PtoB4 
7 PtoQKt3 PtoQkKkt3 
8 Bto kt 2 Bto Kt 2 
9 Kt toQ2 Kt toQ2 
10 R to B sq R to B sq 
1l Ktto K 5 Kt t. Kt 
12 Pt. Kt Kt to Q 2 
13 Pt. P Pt.P 
14 PtoB4 R to K sy 

15 BtoQ3 Kt to B 

16 Q to Kt 4 RtoB2(?)(A) 

17 RtoK B3(!) BtoBsq 

18 PtoB5 B to Kt 4 

19 Rto Kt 3 BtoK R3 

20 QtoR5 K to Rs 

21 PwK6 P t. P (?) (B) 

22 Qt. B PtcQi 

23 QtoR5 PtoK 4 

24 Pt. P K Pt. P 

25 Kt to K 4 R to K 4 

26 Kt to Kt 5 Q to K 2 

27 Ktt. P()(C) Ket. Kt 

28 Qt. Kteh(!) Kt.Q 

29 P to BG dis. ch K to R sq 

30 Pt. Q QRt?P 

31 BL. PY) RtoQ 4 

32 KR to B sq (!) K to Kt 
(?)(D) 

33 BtoB4 Resigns. 

[The notes are by the Editor.] 

(A) The game has been well and 
carefully played by both. This, 
however, appears to be a weak 
move, which subjects Black to a 
strong attack. 16....P to Q5 
would prevent R to K B 3, and 
seems safe. If P t. P the following 
continuation is a likely one :— 

17 Pt. P ré.} 

18 Rt R Bt. R 

19 PtoBSdb Bto B4 

20 KttoB3 Kt to Kt 3 

21 Bt. P Kt t. P 

22 Kt t. Kt Q t. B ch, and 
wins. 

(B) Black's last two moves were 
forced. The move now made loses 
apiece. Hud he here played P to 
K B 8 Mr. Gunsberg had prepared 
the following neat continuation : 
21....P to B38, 22 Bto Kt5 (! 
either R to K 2, 23 Qt. B (!), an 
wins. The only move to save the 

ame is 21 P to Q 5 (!), when 
White thought he ought to win by 
Kt to B4. The position is very 
difficult and complicated, but I do 
not see any certain victory. 

22 KttoB4d BPt.P 
Tf: 

23 Kt to K 5 K PtP 
24 Kt to B7 ch Rt. Kt 

25 Qt. R Et, B, 

and Black bas two Pawns for the 
lost exchange. White at the 23rd 
move may institute a violent attack 
by the sacrifice of the Queen for 
Bishop, but with careful defence it 
should come to nothing. If: 

2RtoKBsq KPtP 
24K Bt. P Bt.B 
25 Rt. B Kt to Kt 3, 

and Black is safe. 

(C) Very ingeniously played. If 
Black now checks with Rook, White 
wins by K to B 2. The capture of 
the Knight is compulsory. 

(D) This is immediately fatal, 
but the game was not to be saved. 
32 R to Q square was the only . 
nove, in reply to which 33 B to Kt 
2 leaves White with an easy game. 

| iL 1} 
VERSITY 

ir 

PRINCETON UNE 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 329 

Game 259 
RUY LOPEZ 
White. Black. White. Black. 

I, Gunsnrne. W. M. Garrie. 46 K to Kt 7 Rt. Pch 

1PtK4 PtoK 4 47 Rt.R P to Kt 4 

2KttoKB3 KttoQB3 43 K to BG PtoB6 

3 Bto Kt 5 Kt to B38 49 K toQ5 PtoB7 

4PtcQ4 Ktt.K P 50 RtoK BZ K to Kt 6 

5 Castles P toQ R3(A) 51 KtoK 4 K to Kt 7 

6 Bt. Kt Q P t. B (B) Resigns 

. te ae (C) tg hy (A) The customary move is 5 

9 Kt to B3 Castl ..-+Bto K 2. The move in the 
Ae te weaee @) - text was played by Rosenthal in 
1. Bre =“ os (E) his match with Zukertort, who 
13 ge PER replied with 6 B to Q 3, and by 
13 PtoK C } P to “3 3 Zukertort against Winawer in the 
14 Kt to B 3 Bto Kt 5 Major Tournament, when the latter 
is B ae A Pp re re ; proceeded as in the text. But little 
16 Q is Q4 Q ride 2(G) has hitherto been done towards 
17 RB to K Bq (H)Q B to Q 54 analysing the many beautiful 
18 Q to Kt6 (! Rt Qsc variations to which it gives rise, 
19 Kt toO4 ‘) P a ) and it was for this reason selected 
ay ea ga de eas re i by Black, so as to neutralise as far 
21 R LB t 3 (J) re =s ) as possible the greater book-know- 
4 LG Q rg 3 (!) ledge of his antagonist. 
23 R to Q 94 Rt QB2 (B) If 6... . Kt Pt. B, White 
24, Rt.QP Rt.QBP rep les wit 7 Q to 2, with the 
25 R to Kt 4 P to Q Kt 4 hetter game. 
26 PtoQR4(?) RtoBS5 (C) 7 Q to K 2, as played by 
27 Rt.R Kt Pt.R Winawer against Zukertort, seems 
28 Rto Kt6 K to B 2 inferior, as the attack on the King's 
29 PtoBS5 R to K sq flank which it initiates cannot be 
30 KtoB2 PtoQ B 4(L) maintained. The defence 7.... 
381 KtoK3 PtP B to K B 4 adopted by Zukertort 
82 Rto Kt6 RtPch is untenable in the present varia- 
33 K toQ 4 RtoK 7 tion, as White’s Queen's Pawn is 
34 KtP Rt.K KtP now doubly guarded by Queen and 
35 Kt.P RtoB 7ch(M) Knight. 
36 KtoQ4(N) Rt.RP (D) Theoretically speaking the 
37 KtoK5 Rto K B7(0) Queen’s Pawn might, perhaps, 
38 P to Kt4 PtP have been safely captured, but this 
39 Rt. P K to Kt 3 course was fraught with dangers in 
40 PtoR5 K to Kt 4 actual play,and would have afforded 
41 RtoQR4 Rto K 7 ch full scope to Mr. Gunsberg’s talent 
42 K to Q6 R to K sq for attacking combinations. 
43 PtoR6 PtoBéd (E) Offering the sacrifice of the 
44 PtoR7 RtoQ RK sq doubled Pawn in preference to the 
45 KtoB7 K to Kt 5 cramping move 10.... Kt to Q 2, 

VERSITY 

if 

PRINCETON UNE 

330 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

(F) Mr. Guest has given in the 
Morning Post the following as a 
probable continuation had White 

taken the Queen's Bishop's 
Pawn: 

12 Ktt.P R to Kt sy 
13 Ktt.B Qt. K Kt 

14 Pto K 6 Q to K 2 

15 Pt.Pch Qt.P 

16 QtoQ6 Qt. K BP ch, 

and Black has the better game. 
The question whether the Pawn 
could be taken was most difficult 
to decide, and Mr. Gunsberg, when 
subsequently playing over the 
game, informed me that he had 
had no intention of doing so. I 
venture to think, however, after a 
very careful examination, that the 
following line of play would have 
yielded White a decisive advan- 
tage : 

12 Ktt.P R to Kt sq 
13 PtoK 6(!) B to K 2, 

the only move to avoid immediate 
loss. Of course, if 13.... BtoB 
3, 14 Q t. Q, and 15 P to K 7. 
Again, if13....Qt. Kt, 14 Kt t. 
B, Pto B3 (?), 15 Pto K 7, R to 
K sq, 16 Q to R 5, and wins. And 
if 13 Qt. Q,14QR t.Q, Bto K 
2,15 Pt. P ch, K t. P,16 Kt to Q 
4, and the Queen’s Knight will 
very shortly effect his escape. 

14 Pt.P ch Kt. P 
If 14 Rt. P, 15 Kt to K 6 

15 KttoK ich K to Kt sq 
16 Q to K 2 (!) Q to Q 5. 

If 16....Q +t. Kt,17 Q to B 4 
ch, K to R sq, 18 Kt to B 7 ch, R 
t. Kt, 19 Q t. R, and wins. 

17 Ktt.R P 

(or, perhaps better, 17 Q R to Q 
sq, and 18 Kt to Q 7), and White 
must win. These variations seem 
to show that Black cannot attempt 
to obtain value for his Pawn by 
capturing or keeping in duresse the 
Queen’s Knight without compro- 
mising his game. 

(G) Preparing the advance of 
the Queen’s Bishop's Pawn. 

(H) Intending shortly to open a 
vigorous attack upon the Black 
King’s quarters. 

(1) Making way for the King’s 
Rook. White evidently intends to 
play the Knight to Q 4, the square 
just vacated by the Queen. Black 
contemplates driving the Knight 
away by P to Q B 4, and con- 
tinuing with R to Bsq and R to 
B 3. 

(J) Overlooking the resource in 
Black’s 21st move. His best play 
was probably 20 Kt to Kt 3, when 
the game might have proceeded 
thus : 

20 Kt to Kt 3 R to B sq 
21 Rto Kt 3 R to B3 
22 QtoR4 B to B4, 

and whether White defend or move 

the Queen’s Bishop’s Pawn I prefer 

Black's game. If 23 R to B 3 (7), 

a answers with 23....PtoQ 
t 4. 

(KX) This and Black's next move 
force the exchange of Queens and 
leave him with a winning advan- 
tage of position for the end-game. 
Mr. Gunsberg had expected 20 .... 
B to K 8, in which case he intended 
to proceed with 21 P to B 5, Pt. 
Kt, 22 P to B 6—a line of play 
which, if not thoroughly sound, at 
least leads to some fine and instruc- 
tive situations. 

(L) If 30....P to Q5,31 R 
to Kt 4. 

(M) With the object of gaining 
a move, 

(N) If: 
36 K to Kt 5 Rt. Kt P ch 
37 Kt. P Et. P, 
and Black wins. 

(O) 37..... P to B 5 would 

also have won, but less easily, e.g. : 

riginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

BESEES 
EO: 
cs 
Bibi 

White. 

I, Gunspere, 

RM 
HSSase oss 
ROFOR LOO 
A Ow oe 
_ wa 
rw co wo 

o 

RFOVOnNarckaon- 
oOo» 

AARON oOWs 
Stree. SS 
J ss 
ARO ons 
“3 

Dee eee ee 
SOO COSTS tr ie OO 
RO RBOOn TS 
S-+S 
i=) 
Oe 
Sune 
Pr! 

oe 
= 
2 

% 
Oo 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 301 

Pto Bd 43 KtoR4 R to Kt 4 
Rto RS ch 44 K to Kt 4, 
Rt.P and Black will ultimately be set 
K to Kt sq the difficult task of winning with 
RtokK Kt5ch Rook and two Pawns against Rook, 
R to Kt 4ch (See Game 25 in Section 1.) 
—oe—— 
Game 260. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. White. Black. 
Te POT ER 21 P to Kt3 QtoR6 
PtoK B4 22 Kt to K sq BtoR 4 
PtoK 3 23 Kt(Ksq)toB3 Ktto K 5 
Kt to K B8 24 PtoKKt4(!)(C) Bt. Kt P(D) 
BtoK2 25 Ktt. K B Kt t. Kt (E) 
Castles 26 Ktt. B Kt to K 5 
PtwoB3 27 Q to B 3, and wins, 
PtoQ4 ; 
Kt toK 5 [The notes are by the Editor.] 
Kt to Q2 
B to Kt 4(A) Bh 10 B to Q Kt 5 seems more 
Kt to Kt 3(?) by 

(B) (B) A weak move, as the Knight 
BPtLB has no future from this square, and 
PtP only returns on the 17th move 
RtR whence he came. 
QtoB3 (C) A very elegant move. 
Q to R3 (D) If the Bishop retreat, 25 Kt 
Kt to Q 2 1) wi 
KttoB3 t. B, Kt t. Kt, 26Q to B 2(!) wins. 
BtoQ2 (E) 25 Bt. Q is best, but loses 
B to K sq two pieces for Rook. 

1 
Game 261. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. White. Black. 
I. Guyspena. 7PtoQB4 B to Kt 2 (A) 
PtoK 3 8 BPt. P Kt t. P (B) 
PtoQ4 9 Bto Kt2 P toKB3(C) 
KttoK BS 10 Kt to B3 PtP 
PtoQB 4 11 Kt t. Kt (Qt. Kt 
Kt toQ B3 12 BtoB4 Q to Q 2 
PtoQ Kt3 13 Ktt. P Kt t. Kt 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

$32 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

White. Black. 
14 Bt. Kt P toQKt4(D) 
15 QteRSbch(!) PtoK Kt3 
16 Qt.QKtP BtoB3 
17 QtoQR5 K to B2 
18 KB to Q sq Q to K 2 (E) 
19 QRtoBsq(!) KBto Kt2 
20 BtoB5(F) QtoKt2 
21 BtoRG Q to Kt sy 
22 Ro Qé6 BtoQ4 
23 KR to Q 7 ch K to Kt sq 
24 RtoQB7 Q to K sq 
25 Bto Q 4(G) B to B sy 
26 Bt. BP PtoR4 
27 Bt R Kt. B 
28 Qto B3ch PtoK 4 
29 RtoBS8 Rt R 
30 Qt. R Q to B2 
31 BtoB4 Bt. B 
32 Rt. B P to K 5 (i) 
33 RtoB?7 QtoB3 
34 P to Kt 3 PtoR5 
35 Qt.Q7() Btokt2 
36 Qt. Bch © Qt. Q 
37 Rt. Q Kt. R 
38 Pt. P K to B3 
39 K to Kt 2 K to K 4 
40 K to Kt: KtoB4 
41 Pto Kt4 Resigns. 

(A) Black should have first de- 
veloped the King’s Bishop at King’s 
second or Queen’s third. 

(B) 8.... P t. P would have 
been better. 

(C) Black’s delay in developing 
his King's Bishop has already given 
him the inferior game, and the pre- 
sent move does not tend to mend 
matters. 9.... Kt to B3 was 
perhaps his best play. If9.... 
Bto K 2, 10 Pt. P, Bto B38, 11 
Bt. B, Qt. B, 12 Kt to R3 [12Q 

Kt to Q2, KttoB6, 13Qto K 
sq, Kt to Kt 5, with the advantage], 
Kt to B 6, 13 Q toK sq, Pt. P, 14 
Kt to Kt 5, with the better game. 

(D) A blunder. It is difficult, 
however, to find a thoroughly satis- 
factory defence for Black. If 14 
.... B to K 2, 15 Qto Kt 4, K 
toB2,16KRtoQsq. Ifl4.... 
P to K 4, then: 

15 B to Kt 2 Qt. Q 
(If15....Qto B3,16Q to Kt 4) 
16 K Rt. Q RtoQBsq 
17 QRto B sq BtoB4 

18 P to Q Kt 4 B to K 2 (!) 
19 BtoK 6 Rt. R 

20 Rt. R B to Q sq 

(If 20....Bt.Q3,21BtoQ 5, 
B to R 8, 22 P to Kt 5, &e.) 

21 Pto Kt5 K to K 2 

22 B to Kt 3, and White has the 
better game. Probably Black's 
best play was 14.... B to Q 4, 
followed by 15....P to K 4, if 
White retreated the Bishop to Q 3. 

(E) If 18....Qto Kt 2, 19B 
to R 6. 

(F) Well played. From this 
point to the end of the game Mr. 
Minchin plays in fine style, never 
allowing his opponent a moment's 
respite. 

(G) 25 B to K 7 was still 
stronger. 

(H) ior: | played in the des. 
perate hope of obtaining a perpetual 
check at King’s Bishop's sixth and 
Queen's eighth. 

(I) Quite conclusive. 

NIVERSITY 

PRINCETON U 

HOWVWOOaOnY 
Peerera se 
TRORRRAE ws 

A 

§ 
3 

sssses 
SO ABRoO 
er; SW pom 
i] 

o 
SS ww 
-_ 
o 
~~ 

BROVOOTVA 
o 

th to 
C= 
£2 
ir 
Onn 
tr co 

"J * 
s 
a 
= 

WSCNmrODaAnN AUP coOMe 
Q 
ae 
wf 
=" = 
©” 
or 

ih a 
WoOnNOR 

333 

es) 

[The notes are by the Editor.) 

(A) White would get a cramped 
ame by here doubling Black's 
awn, eg.: 8 Bt. Kt ch, Pt, B, 

9 QtoQR4, BtoQé, 10 Rto 
K sq, P to K 5,11 Kt to Q 4, Q to 

(B) If 11 Pt. P(?), Bto Q6(!) 
(C) The Queen’s Pawn must 

(D) This loses the exchange at 

21 R to R 2, however ser- 

Black. 

HO Ao he 
Oe eS 
x — 

Sat toe 
on 
— 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 
Game 262, 
PONZIANI. 

Black. White 
I, Gurspero. 23 Kt to B2 
PtoK 4 24 Rt. Kt 
Kt to QB3 25 Kt to K sq 
PtoQ4 26 PtP 
PtoB3 27 Kt to B2 
Kt to K 2 28 Pt.B 
Pt. P 29 BtoBS5 
BtoB4 30 Kt to K 3 
PtQR3 
Kt t. B 
BtoK 2 
Pt. P 
Kt to Kt 5 (1) 
QtoQ2 
PtoQ Kt4 
Kt to B 3 (C) Q 2. 
Castles K R 
Kt to Q 5 
cos 5 now be lost. 
Kt to Kt 6 
B to K 3 (!) least. 
Bt.Q vile, seems a feasible defence. 

Game 263. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

Black. White. 
I. Gunspera. 14 PtoQ R3(B) 
PtoK 4 15 Pt. B 
Kt toQB3 16 Qt P 
Kt to B3 17 Pwo Q3 
B to Kt 5 18 PtoB3 
Castles 19 QteB2 
Kt t. Kt 20 BtoQ2 
Kt toQ5 21 Bto K sq 
Pt. Kt 22 RtoB2(C) 
PtoQB4 23 RtoQ2 
PtoB4 24 Q Rto Q sq 
Q toQR4A) 25 BtoR4 
PtoQ R38 26 BtoB2 
Pt Q Kt4 27 Bto Kt 3 (D) 

WMA RRWOWVOVOOV 
TSSMSSRSSSS StS 

Mone mws 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

834 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

White. Black. 
28 R to B2(E) K R to K sq 
29 Rt. P Bt. P 
30 Q to B sq Bto K 5 
31 QRt Q2(F) BLR 
32 RtB RtoK7 
33 Bto B2 Qto B7 
34 Q to B sq R to B sq 
35 Pto Kt 3 P to Q6 
36 Q to R sq P toeKt 3 

Resigns. 

[The notes are by the Editor. | 

(A) This move threatens to win 
the Bishop and also attacks the 
Queen’s Pawn, and thus compels 
the White Queen to return home. 

(B) White might safely here re- 
treat his Bishop to Kt 3, threatening 
PtoQR3 and B to R 2, which 
would win the Bishop. In that 
case Black’s safest course would 
have been also to retreat his Queen 
home, and neither side would have 
much advantage in development. 

(C) White cannot take the 
Queen’s Rook’s Pawn with advan- 
tage. He would lose at least the 
exchange by B to B4 and R to K 
6, as actually played, only with 
more effect. 

(D) It is quite clear that taking 
the Rook would cost a piece. 

(E) White would speedily lose 
by taking the Queen's Pawn: 

28 Bt. P Bt. P 

29 Rt. B RtoB8 ch 

30 Rt. R Pt. R,queensch 

31 Kt. Q Rt. KR 

32 Qto K2(best) QtoB3 ch 

33 K moves R to K 6, and 
Wins. 

(F) White is mated if he at- 
tempt to save the Rook—e.. : 

31 Rto B2 Rt. Bch 
32 Pt. R Qt. P ch 
33 K to B sq QtoR 6 ch, 

forcing mate in a few moves. 

Game 261. 
FOUR KNIGHTS’ GAME. 

White. Black. 
G. H. D. Gossir, C. E. Ranker. 
1PtoK4 PtoK 4 
2KttoK B38 KttoQB3 
3 Ktto B3 Ktto B38 
4 Bto Kt 5 Kt to Q 5(A) 
5 Kt t. P (B) Kt t. P 
6 Bt B4 Kt to Q 3 (C) 
7 Bto Kt 3 Kt t. B 
8 RP t. Kt BtoK 2 
9 Castles Castles 
10 Pto Q 4 Kt to K sq 
ll Pteob4 PtoQ3 
12 KttoB3 PtooKkK B4 
13 Kt toQ5 BtoB3 
14 BtoK 3 BtoK 8 
15 Kt t.B ch Kt t. Kt 
16 PtoB4 PtoQ4 

White. Black. 
17 KttoK 5 Kt toQ2 
18 Kt to B3 PtoB3 
19 PtoBSd BtoB2 
20 Qt. Q3 BtoR4 
21 PtoQ Kt4 B t. Kt 
22 Rt. B PtoQR3 
23 PtoK R3 QtoR5 
24 KtoR2 QtoR4 
25 Rto Kt 3 PtoR3 
26 BtoQ2 Kt to B 3 
27 Qt K B38 QtB2 
28 Qt Q3 Kt to K 5 
29 RtoB3 Q Rto K sq 
30 QRtoK Bsq RtoK 3 
31 B to B sq K R to K sq 
32 PtoQ Kt3 Pto K Kt 3 
33 K to R sq Qto K 2 

Jriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

34 
35 

36 QR(fr.Bsq)toB2 

37 
38 

Q 

Poo toe 
kg 
> 
ac] 

Bee ee 

Se ONC TCOnNo 

AOn VODs 

bo 
Oo 
Rawr ow 

White. 
K to R2 
B to Q 2 

Rt. R 
K to Kt sq 
QtcQB3 

Rt.Q 

White. 
. H. D. Gosarr. 

BtoQ3 

ae 
c= 
[> « 
Fo 
or 

aw A oo 
& 

Oo ee oo 

sRosersss 
ne 
to 7 

5 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 335 

Black. 

Kt to B38 
RtoK7 
Rt.R 

K to B2 
Qto K 5 

(to Ki8ch(D) 

QtoR?7 

=~ 
~ 

> 

RMR RR RR 
ote oe tee 
SSssssess 
eH RA ROR 
tS bo ow 

White. Black. 
54 K to Kt 3 K toQ2 
55 KtoR4 K to K 2 
56 K to Kt 5 K to B2 
57 BtoK 5 Resigns. 

‘Notes by Mr. Gossip. } 

(A) Inferior to B to Kt 5, the 
Double Ruy Lopez. 

(B) B to B 4 or Castles is 
generally played here. 

(C) The tempting move of 6 Q 
to K Kt 4 wonld not have resulted 
advantageously for Black, as White 
would not have captured the Pawn 
with the Bishop, checking on the 
next move, but simply have taken 
the Knight with the Knight. 

(D) A fatal slip, as the Queen is 
now trapped. Black had the pre- 
ferable game up to this point. 

—_—CooO 

Game 265. 

FRENCH GAME. 

Black. 
T. H. Prrer. 

White. Black. 
23 PtoQB3 Kt to B sq 
24 QtoQ2 Q to B2 
25 PtoK B4 Q to Q sq 
26 KR to K sq Q to K sq 
27 RtR Qt 
28 KtoB2 Kt to K 3 
29 QtoK 3 P to K Kt3 
30 BtoQ3 Q to Q3 
31 QtoK 5 Q t.Q 
32 BPt.Q Kt toQ 2 
33 K to B38 PtoR3 
34 PtooK R4 PtoQB4 
35 Kt to K 2 K to Kt 2 
36 KttoB4 Kt t. Kt 
37 K t. Kt PtoBsd 
38 BtoB2 K to B sq 
39 K to Kt K to Kt 2 
40 B to Kt sq Kt to B sq 
41 Pto Kt3 Kt to K 3 ch 
42 K to Kt 4 PtoQ Kt4 
43 BtoB2 P to Kt 5 
44 K to B3 (!) (A) Pt. P 
45 KtoK3> Kt to B2 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

336 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

3 

ite. 

> > 
“Io 
Ss * 
a) 
.m 
° 
o 

SUSaseseno-SBE 
AAR Khe 
cress ts st 
tonn not 
i RR Ro OM 

a 

ss 
es 

CONMAR wre 
Bow yA Us 
ss * 

Ow 

co to 

10 Castles 
1l Kt to K sq 
13PtP 

orb 
co on 

ro 8 
= 
-_— 

17 Q 

bo np bo to 
RhROOSs hn. 
re 
32 - 

4 ee 
oo wWNmreota 

ton 
OvKOO dN EH 
SoSSSHSES 
a 
we» 

ro 
© 
sa] 
S 
a 
co 
& 

Black. White. Black. 
Pt.P 59 KtoR5 Kt t. P 
PtoBd 60 Kt. P 
Kt.P Drawn game. 
P we Kt 4(B) (Notes by Mr. Gossip. 
Kt.P (A) The only possible move to 
Kt ‘n R6 save the game. 
KtoB3 (B) As good, perhaps, as any- 
PtoB7 thing. 
Kt t. B ch (C) A careful examination of the 
K to K 2 position will show that 51 Pto R45 
K to Q2 would only have resulted in a 
Kt to Kt 5 draw, 
Game 266, 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. White. Black. 
G, H. D, Gossrr, 30 K R to K sq K to Kt sq 
Kt to Q B3(?) 31 RtoKt2(e) KtoB2 
PtoQ4 32 R(fr. K sq)to K 2Kt to B sq 
PtoK3 33 R to K sq PtoK Kt3 
B to Kt 5 ch 34 R(fr.Kt2)to K 2K to Kt sq 
Kt to B3 35 BtoB3 KtoB2 
Bt. Kt ch 36 Q to B 2 (f) Q to B2 
Kt to K 5 37 Kt to Ktsq(g) Ktto K3 
Castles 38 KttoQ2(?) KttoKt2(h) 
PtoB4 39 P to K 4 BPt.P 
KtoR 40 Pt.P PtP 
Kt to K 2 41 Bt. P(i) Bto B4(A) 
Fir 42 Qto R2ch(B) (j) Kto Bsq(!)(C) 
PtoB3 43 BtoB3(D)(k) Rt.R 
Kt to Q 3 44 Rt.R Rt.R 
Kt to K sq 45 Bt. R Kt to Q 4 (1) 
Kt to B3 46 QtoKt2(?) QtoK 2 (m) 
B to K 3 (b) 47 K to B sq Bto R 6 ch 
Q to B2 48 K to K sq B to Kt 5 
PtoQR3 49 Kt to Kt sq KttoK B4 
Kt to Kt 3 50 Q to Q 2 QtoK 5 
Q R to K sq 51 QtoQ3 Q t. B ch (E) 
B to B sq 52 Qt. Q Bt.Q 
Kt to Q 2 53 Kt. B Kt t. B ch 
Kt to B 3 (c) 54 Kt t. Kt Kt t. P ch 
Kt to Q2 55 K to Q 3 Kt to K 3 (F) 
Kt to B38 (n) 
Rto B2 56 Kt to K 4 K to K 2 
Q to Q2 57 KtoB4 PtoK R3 
KRtK2 58 Kt to Q6 Kt to Qsq 

I 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT, 337 

White. Black. 
59 K toQ 4 Kt to K 3 ch 
60 KtoB4 Kt to Q sq 
61 KtoQ4 Kt toB2(G)(o) 
62 Kt t. Kt (!) K t. Kt 
63 K to K 5 K to K 2 
64 P to R3 (!) P to Kt 4 
65 PtoKt4(p) KtoQ2 
66 Kio BG K toQsq(!)(H) 
67 K to Kt 6 P to Kt 4 (1) 
68 B Pt. P ep. PtoB4 
69 Kto B5 K to Q 2 (4) 
70 KtoK4 K to Q 3 
71 KtQ3W) KwQ2 
72 KtoK 4 K to Q 3 
73 K to BS K to Q2 
74K toK 5 K to B3 
75 K to K 4(r) K toQ 3 
76 KtoQ3 K to Q2 
77 KtoB3 K to Q 3 
78 K to Kt 3 K to Q2 
79 P to Kt 7 K to B2 
80 P queens ch K t.Q 
81 KtoB4 K to Kt 2 (s) 
82 Kt. P K to B2 

Drawn game. 

[The notes are by Mr. G. H. D. 
Gossip. | 

(A) The only possible move to 
avoid loss. In this extremely difli- 
cult and interesting position Black 
took twenty-five minutes for reflec. 
tion before writing down his 41st 
move at the adjournment. 

(B) Not so good as 42 Q to Kt 3 
ch, or 42 R. to K Bsq, or 42 Bt. B. 

(C) Best. 

(D) Unadvisable. The exchange 
of Bishops would have been better, 
followed by entrance of the White 
Knight into Black's game. 

(E) Played hastily under pres- 
sure of the time limit. Black could 
here have won two Pawns and the 
game by 51....Q to R8 ch, fol- 
lowed by 52....Q t. R P, and 
afterwards capturing the Knight's 
Pawn. By the move in the text, 
however, Black wins a clear Pawn, 
and ought with care to have won 

rather easily. By winning this 
game he would have won the fifth 
prize. As it was he only drew it, 
and thus only tied for fifth prize 
with Mr. Ranken. Black was too 
eager to draw. 

(F) A weak move, duc some- 
what to physical exhaustion. 55 
...-Kt to Kt 6 must have won 
eventually with care, ¢.97.,55.... 
Kt to Kt 6,56 K to B 4, Kt to Q7 
ch, 57 K to Q 3 or Q 4, Kt to B 8, 
winning another Pawn. As it was, 
Black nearly lost the game. The 
ending is excessively difficult, 

(G) A dangerous move. Black 
hoped that his opponent would be 
tempted to take the Pawn with 
Knight, in which ease he would 
have lost the game. White, how- 
ever, selected the correet move. 

(H) The only move. 
(1) Again the only possible move 
to save the game. 

(J) If 71 K to B 5, Black rejoin’ 
with 71....K to Q 2, and draws. 
[Further notes by Mr. W. M. 
Gattie. | 

(a) Q 2 was probably a better 
square for the Queen, 

(b) 17....P to Q Kt 3 would 
have tended to free Black’s game. 

(c) Black cannot take the initia- 
tive in breaking through, and has 
nothing better than to await the 
course of events. At this point, as 
on several occasions during the 
game, Mr, Gossip proffered a draw. 

(d) Providing against the entry 
of either of the Black Knights at 
White’s K B 4, after the advance 
of the King’s Pawn, 

(e) Nothing but loss of time 
results from this change of plans. 
White should have proceeded at 
once with 31 B to B 3, and 32 B to 
B 2, preparatory to the advance of 
the King’s Pawn and the subse- 

Zz 

| iL 1 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

338 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

quent entrance of the Knight at 
B 4. 

(f) The advance of the King’s 
Pawn at this juncture would pro- 
hably have led to a general ex- 
change, and ultimately to a drawn 
battle, the remaining Bishops being 
of opposite colours. White gains 
nothing, however, by the move in 
the text, and he would have done 
better to proceed with 36 B to B 2, 

e.g.% 

36 BtoB2 QtoB2,or(A) 
37 PtoK 4 BPtP 
38 Pt. P Pt.P 
39 KttoB4 K to Kt sq 
40 Kt to Q6 R to Q sq 
41 Bt. P, with a fine game. 

Ay 
$6 ..... K to Kt sq 
37 PtoK 4 BPt.P 
38 Pt.P PtP 
39 KttoB4 Kt toQ 4 
40 Bto Kt 2, 

and again I much prefer White's 
game. 

White might also have advan- 
tageously played 36 Q to R 2, 
which leads to many beautiful 
combinations of a character too 
complex to fall within the scope of 
these notes. 

(z) The first of a serics of weak 
moves by which White dissipates 
all his advantage, and eventually 
obtains a bad game. 

(h) 38 .... Kt to Kt 4 is ap. 
parently stronger. 

(i) This move was made by 
White under the impression that 
he could meet 41.... Bto B 4 by 
42 Kt to B 4; it will be found, 
however, that this course would 
have resulted in the loss of the 
exchange. 

(j) I doubt if White had at his 
command any move that was 
altogether satisfactory. If 42 Q to 
Kt 3 ch, K to B sq, 43 BtoB 3, 
Rt.R,44Rt.R, Rt. R,45 Bt. R, 
() to K 2, 46 Q to Q sy, Kt to Q 4, 

&ec. ; if 42 R to B sq, K to Kt sq; 
and if 42 Bt. B, R t. R, winning 
the exchange. Perhaps his best 
lay was 42 P to Q 5, which might 
hess led to the following varia- 
tion :— 
42 PtoQi5 
43 Kt t. Kt 
(43 P to Q 6, Kt t. Q P.) 

Kt t. B (!) 

43 1... Bt. Kt 

44 Rt. B(!) RtRk 

45 Rt. R Pt. P(!) 
(45.... Rt. R, 46 P to Q 6.) 

46 Q to B2 ch K to Kt sq 

47 Rt. Reh Ktt. R 

48 Q to Q 4, &e. 

(k) If 48 Bt. B, Black may 
apparently play 43 ....R t. R 
with perfect safety. 

(1) Well played. 
(m) Leaving White but one 

move to avoid the loss of a piece. 

(n) The course suggested for 
Black by Mr. Gossip was no doubt 
stronger than that actually selected, 
and would not improbably have 
resulted in his winning the game. 
The task would not, however, have 
been an easy one. Assume, for 
instance, after the moves given in 

note (F): 

57 KtoQ4 KttoB8 
5B K to K 5 K to K 2(!) 
59 KttoK 4 Kt t. P 

60 KtoB4 PtoR3 
61 P to Kt 4, 

and Black has still a very difficult 

game to play, 

(o) As will presently be seen, 
this move should with best play 
have proved fatal to Black. 

(p) After 

vicissitudes 

White had now a won game by 
playing 65 PtoR4 Thus: 

65 Pto R 4 Pt. PS) 
66 Pt. P PtoR4,or(A) 
67 KtoBd5 K to Q sq (!) 
68 K to Kt 5 P to Kt 4 

Jriginal from 

PRIN CETO N UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 889 
69 BPt. Pep. PtoB4 foresee the highly ingenious and 
70 KtoBSd K to Q2 scientific process elaborated by his 
71 KtoK4 KtoQ3 opponent, thought that the game 
72 Kt Q38 K toQ2 must be won by the advance of 
73 KtoB4 Kto B38 either Pawn, and selected the 
74 Pto KtT Kt. P wrong one. 
. ae k eGR (q) The key to this and the 
2 following moves of the King lies in 
7 KtoK 5 K to B3 Sos 
> . the fact that, when the White 
78 K to B 5, and wins. Kine ; = ah - 
ing is posted at Queen’s Bishop's 
: A. fourth and the Black King at 
66 .... K toQ2 Queen’s Bishop's third, if Black 
67 K toB 5 K to Q sq have to move he will lose, but if 
63 K to Kt 6 P to Kt 4 White have to move the game is 
69 BPt. Pep. PtoB4 drawn. 
70 KtoBd K toQ2 
71 KtoK 5 K to B3 (r) If: 
(If71....PtoR 4, the position 75 P to Kt7 KtP 
becomes in a move or two the same 76 KwQs P to BS (!) 
as in the variation already given.) a7 Kt.P K to B3, 
72 P to R 5, and wins, and Black wins 
The move in the text leads only to (s) OF course 81....K toB2 
adraw. White, who did not at all would lose, 
—_—_— 
Game 267. 
VIENNA OPENING. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
C. von Barpereneyr. C. E. Rayxen, 20 Qt. B to Kt 4 
1PtcK4 PtoK4 21.QtK4ch QtoK4 
2 KttoQB8 KttoQB3 22 Q to Q Kt 4 K to B2 
3'Bto B4 Kt to B: 23 Qt KtP(H) KRtoK sq 
4PtQ3 B to B4(A) 24 QtoR5 PtoQB4 
5 Bto K Kt5 PwQ3 25 Q to Q 2(1) Q to K 6(J) 
6 KttoQ5 Bto K 3 26 QtRS QtoK4 
7 Bt. Kt Pt. B 27 Qto R4(I) RtoK2 
8QtoR5(B) KttoQ5(C) 23 OQtoK R4 QtoK 5 
9 Castles P to Kt 4(D) 29 Qto Kt 3 QtoK 4 
10 Bto Kt 3 Kt t. Bch 30 QtoR3 K to Kt 2 
11 RPt. Kt Bt. Kt (E) 3l K R to B sy (K)Q Rto K sq 
12 Pt.B K to K 2 (F) 32 QtoR4 Q to Kt 4 
13 Kt to K 2 Q to K Kt sq 33 Qt. Q ch Pt.Q 
14 P to Q 4(!) B to Kt 3 34 KtoBsq(L) RtoK7 
18 Pt.P BPt.P 30 RtoQ2 R to K 8 ch 
16 QtoR4ch PtoB3 36 Rt. R Rt. Rech 
17 PtooK B4 BtoK6ch(G) 37 R to Q sq RtoK 7 
18 K to Kt sy PtP 38 Rte Q2 RtoQ8 ch 
19 Ktt. P Bt. Kt Drawn game. 
riginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

540 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

[The notes are by the Rev. C. E, 
Ranken. | 
(A) As Black speedily gets into 
difficulties by allowing his Knight 
to be pinned, P to K R 8 would 
have been more prudent. 

(B) Threatening to take the 
Queen's Bishop’s Pawnwith Knight 
check, and then Bishop with 
Bishop. 

(C) Kt to Kt 5 wore better. 

(D) Weakening his Queen's 
flank : P to Q B 3 were better. 

(E) Again P to B 3 was the 
right move: B t. P would not have 
been good ou account of White's 
reply Q to B 3. 

(F) It was still perhaps impru- 
dent to take the Pawn with Bishop, 
but by this move Black exposes 
himself to more serious danger: 
the least risk perhaps lay in 

Black’s game: P to K R 4 was 
probably his best course. 

(H) He should rather have first 
attacked Queen with his King’s 
Rook, for if Black then took the 
King’s Rook’s Pawn, the reply Q to 
K Kt 4 would make it very hot for 
him. 

(I) Here again K R to K sq, 
followed by Q to B 7 ch, would be 
very deadly. 

(J) Black's King being so much 
exposed, he aims naturally at ex- 
changing Queens, which White 
tries to avoid. 

(K) Of course Black intended to 
give up his Queen for the two 
Rooks, both now and previously, 
had White moved R to K sq. 

(L) Whereby White allows his 
opponent either to win a Pawn or 
secure the draw: he should have 
played R to B 2. The gameis not 

Castling at once. a good specimen of Herr Bardele- 
(G) This does not improve ben's skill. 
—~or—— 
Game 268. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

M, Fenvuer, . H, D. Gossip, 
1PtcoQ4 PtcQB3 
2PtoQB4 PtoK 3 
3 KttoQB3 PtoQ4 

4 Kt to B 3 (?)(A)Pt.P 

5 PtoQR4 Bto Kt 5 
6 PtoK 4 PtoQ Kt4 
7 BtoK 2 Kt to K 2 
8 Castles Bt. Kt 
9PtB B to Kt 2 
10 QtoB2 Castles 

ll BtoR8 R to K sq 
12 K R to Q sq PtoQR3 
13 Bto QB sq (?) Kt toQ 2 
14 KttoK5(?) Ktt. Kt 

15 Pt. Kt QtoB2 
16 PtoB4 Q to Kt 3 ch 

17 KtoRsq QR to Q sq 
18 RtoK B sq Kt to Kt 3 
19 Rt B3 KttoR5 
20 BtoK 3 PtoQB4 
21 RtoK R3 Kt to Kt 3 
22 Rto Kt3 QtoB3 

23 BtoB3 RtoQ6 

24 Pt.P PiY 

25 Rto K sq RtoQ Rsq(B) 
26 Bto K 2 R to Q2 

27 BtoB3 Kt to R 5 

28 RtoK Ktsq PtoKt3(?)C) 
29 B to B sq PtoQ Kts 
30 R to R 3 (!) P to Kt 6 

31 QtoK B2(!) KttB 

32 Pt. Kt (!) RtQR7 
338 QtoK R4(!) Pto B4(D) 

val fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 341 

White. Black. 

34 Pt, Pep.(?)(E) Qt. K P(!)(F) 

35 Q to Kt4 QtoB4 

386 QtoR4 RtoB2 

37 KR(fr.R3)toKt3 Q t. P at BG 

38 QtoR5 R to Kt 2 

39 Qt. QBP P to Kt7 

40 Bt.P Rt.B 

41 Qto Q6 BtoQ4 

42 PtoBSd QtKBP 

43 R to K B sq R (fr. Kt 2) to 
Q) Kt 2 

44 K toKtoq QtoB?7 

45 QtoQ8e K to Kt 2 

46 QtoR 4 R to Q Kt 8 

47 QtoQ4ch K to Kt sq 

48 QtoB2 Qt.Qeh 

49 Kt.Q R (fr. Kt 2) to 
Kt 7 ch 

50 K to Kt sy Rt. Reh 

51K LR Rt.RP 

Resigns. 

{The notes are Ly the Editor. | 

(A) 4 P to K 8 is necessary. 
Owing to the Pawn at Q B 3 and 
the King’s Pawn being already 
moved, Black, after the capture of 
the Pawn, can support it, which 
cannot be done in the ordinary 
form of the Queen’s Gambit. 

(B) Black has now a striking 
superiority both of position and 

material, and his Queen’s Pawns 
are irresistible. 

(C) This very ill-judged move 
puts the Knight in great danger: 
it cannot now be moved away when 
attacked by the Rook, and it can 
only take the Bishop at the risk of 
a lost game, after White's last 
move, which was too open in its 
intended prevention of that cap- 
ture. 

(D) Black’s game is lost. This 
move, though in reality useless, 
was the only one to guard the 
Rook’s Pawn, as that could not, of 
course, be advanced to Rook’sfourth 
without capture by the Queen. 

’ (E) Here White missed his op- 
portunity. 34 Rt. P ch (!) leaves 
Black without resource, as whether 
the Rook be taken or the King 
moved, mate follows immediately. 

(F) This move completely turns 
the tables: if the Queen be taken 
Black mates in four moves, and if 
not taken she guards the King’s 
Knight's Pawn, and stops the 
sacrifice before so potent : 

35 Rt. P ch Qt.R 
36 RK to Kt 3 B t. P ch, 

and mate follows in a move or two. 

Game 269, 
KING’S BISHOP’S OPENING, 

White. Black. White. Black. 

H. Lee. C. B. Rayxey. 10 Qt. Kt PtoKR3 
1PtoKk4 Pto K 4 ll PtoQ Kt4 B to Kt 3 
2BtiB4 KitoK B3 12 PtoQR4 PtoB3 
3 PwBd Kt to B3 138 PtoRSd PtoQ4 
4PtoQ3 BtoB4 14 Q to Kt 3 Bto B2 
5 KttoK B3 PtoQ3 15 Q Kt toQ2 QR to Q sq 
6 PtoKR3 Q to K 2 16 Castles Castles 
7 PtoBd KttoQR4 17 Bto Kt2 B to B sq 
8 PtoB3 Kt t. B 18 QtoB2 K R to K sq 
9 QtoR4ch BtoQ2 19 PtoB4(A) PtKP 

Jriginal fre 
PRINCETON U 

NIVERSITY 

342 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

White Black. 
20 Pt. P Qt. P (B) 
21 BtoR3 Qt. Kk P 
22 BtoQ6 Q to Kt 3 ch 
23 PtoBS Q to Kt 4. 
24 Bt. B Q to Q6 
25 Qt. Q Rt.Q 
26 Rt. P Kt to Q2 
27 KttoB4 Resigns 

(A) An ingenious trap, albeit 

one which a player of Mr. Ranken's 
experience might have been ex- 
pected to detect, 

(B) Fatal, of course ; his game, 
however, was at best somewhat 
confined. Probably 20.... Kt to 
R 4, threatening 21.... Kt to B 
5 and 22....Ktto K 7 chor Kt 
to Q 6, according to circumstances, 
was the most satisfactory course 
open to him. 

Game 270. 

ENGLISH OPENING. 

White. Black. 
W. M, Gatttr, C. BK. Rawkey. 
1PtQB4 PtoK 3 
2PtoK3 KttoK B3 
3 KttoK B3 PtoQB4 
4PwQ4 PtoQ4 
5 KttoB3 Kt to B3 
6 PtoQ Kt3(?) Pt. QP) 
POL, Bto Kt5 
8 Bto Kt2 Pt. P(A) 
9 PtP Kt to K 5 
10 R to B sq Castles 
11 BteoQ3 Kt. t. Kt 
12 Bt. Kt Bt B 
13 Rt. B QtoR4 
14 Q to Q 2 (B) P toQ Kt 3 
15 Castles B to Kt 2 
16 RtoQKtsq BtoR3(?) 
17 KRtoKkt3(C)QtoK R4 
18 RtoR3(D) Bto Kt2 
19 BtoK2(E) KRtoQsq(!) 
20QtoK3(F) Qteo Kt3 
21 BwQ3 QtoB3 
22 BtoK 4 Kt to R 4 
23 Bt. B Kt t. B 
24 Rto Q3 Kt toQ 3 
25 RfromR 3to B3Q R to B sq 
26 KttoK 5 Kt to B4 
27 Qto K 4 Kt t. P(?)(G) 
28 Pto Kt4(!)(H) Ktto K7 ch(1) 
29 Qt. Kt Rt. R 
30 Rt. R Qto BS 
31 Q to K 3 (J) Qt. Q =: 
Rt. PtoB3 

White. Black. 
83 Kt toQ 38 Rt. P 
34 Rt. P Rt. P ch 
35 K to B sq K toB2 
36 Rto K 2 RtoKR5 
37 K to Kt2 RtoQsh 
38 Kt to K sq PtoQ Kkt4 
39 Ktto B2 RtoQR5 
40 Kt to R sq PioQR4 
41 Kt to Kt3 Rto R6 
42 K to B sq P to Kt 5 
43 KtoKsq(?) PtoR5(!) 
44 Kt to Bi P to Kt 6 
ae oh Oe rir 
46 Rto Kt2(K) RtoRS8ch(L) 
47 K toQ2 RtoR8 
48 Rt. P R. t. P 
49 K to K 2 P to B 4(M) 
50 R to Kt 7 ch K to B38 
51 R to Kt 6 ch K to Kt4(N) 
52 KttoK6ch KtoR3 
53 Kt to Q 4 dis ch P to Kt 3 
54 Kt t. P ch K to Kt 4 
55 Kt toQ4 KtoB5 
56 Kt to B3 R to R 6 (OQ) 
57 RtoKkt4ch Kto B4 
58 RtoK R4 Rt. RK 
59 Kt t. Reh K to Kt 5 
60 Kt to Kt2(P) PtoR4 
61 KtoK 3 PtoRS 
62 Kt to K sq P to Kt 4 (Q) 
63 Ktto B3 K to R 4 (‘) 
64 Kt to Kt sq (R) K to Kt 5 
65 KtoK 4 P to R 6 (8) 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 343 

White. Black. 
66 Kt to B38 K to R4 
67 Kt to hR2 Resigns, (T) 
(A) Black might have won a 
Pawn by 8.... KttoK5,9.... 
QtoR4,and 10....Qt. P. 

(B) If 14 Q to B 2, Black 
auswers with 14.... Kt to Kt 5. 

(C) White might have played 
17 P to Q 5 with good prospect of 
victory ; e.g. : 

17 PtoQs PtP 

18 Pt. P Bt. B 

(If18.... Kt toKt5,19 Rt. Kt.) 

19 Rt. B Qt. Q 

20 Rt. Q Kt to R4 
(Apparently his best move.) 

21 PtoQ6 K R to Q sq 

(best) 
22 RtoQBsq Q R to Kt sq 
(If 22 ....QRtoB sq, 23 R to 

B 7, threatening Kt to K 5 or Kt 
to Q 4 according to circumstances.) 
23 RtoB7 R to Kt 2 
24 KttoK6(!) Pt BS 

25 Kt to B 6, and wins. 

There are, of course, numerous 
other variations, but I believe that 
all of them should result in White's 
favour. 

(D) A very weak move, for the 
Black Bishop is better posted at 
Knight’s second than at Rook's 
third. White could still have suc- 
cessfully advanced the Queen’s 
Pawn, and he had many other good 
continuations at his command, such 
as 18 Bto K 2, and 18 B to K 4. 

(E) If now 19 P to Q 5, Pt. P, 
20 P. t. P, Kt to Kt 5, and Black 
hus the advantage. 

(F) A tame move ; but the hand 
of White’s clock was pointing to 
the hour, and he had no time to 
examine the results of any more 
energetic course. Both players 
were at this point much pressed by 
the time limit. 

(G) A very ingenious but un- 
sound conceptiov. Taking with 
the Rook would have been no 
better, for White could have replied 
by exchanging Rooks and then 
playing Pawn to Knight’s fourth. 

(H) The only reply. Of course 
if 2 Rt. Kt, Rt. R, 29 Qt. KR, KR 
to Q sq, &e. 

(L) The Knight cannot be saved. 

(J) A weak move, due to over- 
anxiety to force the exchange of 
Queens. 31 Q to Q sy would 
have been much wore to the pur- 
pose. 

(K) If: 
46 K to Bsq Rto R 8 ch 
47 K to Kt 2 R to Kt 8 (!), 

and I believe that Black can draw 
the game, provided that he does 
not advance the Queen’s Knight's 
Pawn to the 7th square, and loses 
no time in “ge g dewen forward on the 
King’s flan If he play 47. 
R to R 7, then 48 ay sq, P to 
Kt 7, R to Q Kt sq, and White 
wins. 

(L) Owing to White’s ill-judged 
43rd move, Black has now every 
prospect of drawing the game. 

(M) Best, for Bishop’sthird is the 
safest square for the King. Had 

he played 49 . K to Kt 3, 

White intended to proceed with : 

50 KR to Kt 7 KtoR38 

51 Kt to K 6 R to Kt 7 

(if 51 P to Kt 3 or Kt 4, 52 Kt to 
B 8.) 

52 K to B sq R to Kt 3 

(If 52....Rto Kt 5, 53 Pto B38, 
R to Kt 6, 54 K to B 2.) 

53 PtoB3 PtoB4 

54 R to K 7, 

and Black cannot avoid the loss of 

a Pawn at least. 

(N) Anerror. Play as he will, 
Black must now lose a Pawn. He 
might oa pied have drawn the 
game by 51....KtoK2 

nal fro 
PRINC ETO N UNIV ERS SITY 

344 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

(O) If56.... R to R 8, White 
replies equally with 57 R to Kt 4 
ch, and 58 R to K R 4, and Black 
must submit to the exchange of 
Rooks or the loss of another Pawn. 

(P) If 60 Kt to B 3, K to B 5, 
and I believe Black can draw. 

(Q) Taking the best chance of a 
draw. If 62 ....Pto R 6, 63 
Kt to B 3, P to Kt 4, 64 Kt to R 
2 ch, and 65 K to B 3. 

(R) The only move to win the 
game. If 64 Kt to Q2 or Kt to R 2, 
Black plays 64.... P to Kt 5, 
and draws; if 64 K to K 4, P 

Kt sq (?), P to R 6 (!), 66 Kt toB 
3, Pt. Kt, 67K t. P, K to BR 5, 
and Black wins), P to Kt 6, and 
draws; and if 64 Kt to K sq or Kt 
to Q 4, the Black King returns to 
Kt 5. 

(S) If65....KtoR 4, 66 K 
to B 5, P to Kt 5, 67 K to B 4, P 
to Kt 6, 68 P to B 3, &e. (or 67 
....P to R 6, 68 K to Kt 4, K to 
Ki 4, 69 Kt to K 2, and with 
ordinary care White must wiu the 
Black Pawns). 

(T) For, if 66....K to R 5 
67 K to B 5, K to R 4, 68 Kt to 
to 

to Kt 5,65 Kt to R 2 (65 Kt to 3, P to Kt 5, 69 Kt to BR 2, &e. 
-_—O— 
Game 271. 
SCOTCH GAMBIT. 
White. Black. White. Black. 

C. KE. RaxKen. L. Brnrata, 27 RtR Rt. R 

1PtoK4 P to K 4 28 BtoBsq(L) RtoKk7 

2 KttoK B3 Kt toQB3 29 K to B sq Bt. P 

3 PtoQ4 Pt. P 30 Rto Kt sy (M) Rto K 8 ch 
4 Ktt. P B to K 2 (?) ol K to Kt2 B to Q 4ch 

5 BtoK3(A) KttoB3 Resigns. (N) 

6 KttoB5(B) Castles eh a 

‘ ap (A) White might perhaps with- 

é mies 3(0) hk a 1D) out risk have taken greater ad- 

9B mes B 3 E Pp ‘ ; PE vantage of his opponent’s unor- 
10 Q .Q (F) Rt Q thodox defence by 5 P to K B 4, 
ll Kit. P Kt tog Kea! The move in the text is, however, 
12 Ktte R3 Ktt. Kt 5) quite satisfactory. 
13 Bt. Kt P to K B4(F) (B) Leading to serious loss of 
14 Bto BS BtoB3 time. White should rather have 

15 RtoQ Ktsq(G) P to B3 

16 Castles Bto K3 

17 PtoB3 Kt to Q 6 (!) 
18 Bto K 2 Bt.RP 

19 Bt, Kt Rt. B 

20 QR to Q sq (H) QR to Q sq 
21 QRtoRsqy (I) Bto Kkt6 
22 Bt. P(J) RtoQ7 
23 K RtoKtsq PtoB5(!)(K) 
24 P to Kt3 R to K sq 
25 Pt.P QRtoK7 
26 BtoK3 Rt. Kt P 

brought another piece into play by 
6 B to Q 3 or6 Kt to Q B-3. 

(C) £7 Kit. B, Qt. Kt, 8 P to 
B 3, P to Q 4, &e. 

(D) Why not at once to Queen's 
fourth ? 

(E) Had White taken the Pawn 
7 game might have proceeded 
thus: 

9 PtP Kit. P 
10 Qt Q2 K Kt to Kt5 
Drea a re rl 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 845 

11 Kt toR3 
12 Bt Q 
with a fine game. 

(F) All this is played by Black 
with excellent judgment. 

(@) Bad enough; but White 
had apparently no satisfactory con- 
tinuation, He would possibly have 
done better to play 15 B to Q 2, ¢.y. 

Qt.Q 
Kt to Q 5, 

15 BtoQ2 Bt. P 

16 RtoQKtsq Bt. Kt 

(16 Rt. B(?), 17 Kt. R, Bt. Kt, 

18 R to Kt 3.) 

17 Bt. Kt Bt. Beh 

18 Rt B R to K sq ch 
(or 18.... P to B3, 19 Castles.) 
19 KtoQ2 PtoB3 

20 K R to Q Kt sy, 
and Black will have some difficulty 
in freeing his Queen's pieces. 
(H) Playing to win Black's 
Queen’s Rook’s Pawn, en revanche. 
(1) White appears at this point 
to have missed a fair opportunity 
of escaping with a draw by ex- 
changing Rooks. He could not, 
however, have proceeded with 22 B 
ii cl coh i RtoQ 
('). 

(J) A fatal error, of which Herr 
Benima avails himself in fine style. 

(K) Very ingenious. 

(L) This move precipitates defeat, 
but the game was lost anyhow. If: 
28 RtoQBsq Rt R7 
29 BtoBbdor(A) PtoQ Kt3 
30 Bto Q6 
(If 30 R to Kt sq, B to Q 4, 31 B 

to Q 6, Bt. P, &.) 

Wiss PtoB4 

31 Kt to Kt 5 BtooK R5, 

and Black must win. 
(A) 

29 Kt te Kt sq 

30 K to Kt 2 

(If 30 R to Bsq, B to B5, winning 

the exchange at least; if 30 P to 

B 4, B to Kt 7; and if 30 PtoR 

3, B to B 5.) 

RtoR 8 

90:5: BtoR7 

81 KttoR3 BtoQ 4ch,&e. 
(M) 30 K t. R would have pro- 

longed the game. 

(N) For if 32 Pto B3, BtoQ 
5; if 382 KtoR3, Rto Kt8; and 
if 32 K to Kt 3, Black mates in 
five moves. 

Game 272. 
CENTRE GAMBIT. 

White Black. White. Black. 

F. Hunter. CO. E. Rayxey. 12 RtoQ Bsq (f) Rto K sq 
1PtK4 PtoK 4 B 
2PtoQ4 re.r 13 Kt to B3 Kt to BS 
3 BoB KttoQ Bs 14 Q to Kt 3 Bt. Kt ()(C) 
4KttoK B3 BtoB 4 15 Bt. Pch K to R sq 
5 PtoB3 KttoB3 16 Ktto Kt5(D) Bt. P(‘) 
6 Pt.P B to Kt 5 ch 17 RtoB5(?)(E) Bt R 
7 BtoQ2 Bt. Bch 18 Kt. B(?)(F) RtoK Baq 
8 QKtt.B PtoQ4 19 RtoB5 Kt t. P 
PT SRLe K Kt t. P 20 Kt t. Kt Q t. Kt 
10 Castles (A) Castles 21 K to Kt sq QtoK 5 
1l QKttoK 4 B to Kt 6 Resigns. (G) 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

346 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

[The notes are by the Editor. } 

(A) 10 Q to Kt 3 is slightly 
better. 

(B) Quite purposeless. 

(C) Well played, in fact winning 
a picce, for the Bishop cannot be 
taken, as Black would mate by 
checking with Queen at King’s 
Knight's fourth. The attack on 
the King’s Bishop’s Pawn can be 
disregarded. 

(D) 116 Bt. R, Q to Kt 4 (!) 
mates in two moves. The move in 
the text attacks Bishop with Queen, 

and thus stops that coup for the 
moment, 

(E) Evidently played to prevent 
Q to K Kt 4, but if there is any 
choice in such a position, 17 K K 
to K sq is slightly less ruinous. 

(F) This leaves Black a clear 
Rook to the good. If 18 B t. R, 
Q t. B, and White is mated if he 
takesthe Bishop. If19 R to B 5, 
B to R 6 (!) wins. 

(G) Mate can only be postponed 

- giving up another Rook for the 
night, 

—_—lo 

Game 273. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. 

H. Lex. C, J. Lampert. 
1 Pte K 4 Pio K 3 
2Pt0oQ4 PtoQ4 
8 KttoQBs3 KttoK B38 
4 Bto K Kt5 Bto K 2 
5 PtoK 5 Kt to Q2 
6 Bt B t. B 
7 QtoQ2 PtoQR38 
8 KttoQs PwQB4 
9 PtQB Kt toQB3 
10 PtoK B4 PtoB3 
1l KttoB3 Castles 
12 BteQ3 P to QKtA( A) 
13 Castles Kt to Kt 3 
14 Rto Bsq R to Kt sq(B) 
15 Bto Kt eq BtoQ2 
16 KttoK3 Kt to B 5 (C) 
17 Ktt. Kt Kt Pt. Kt 
18 QtoQ B2 PtoB4 
19 PtoK Kt4(D) Pto Kt3 
20 QtoKt2(E) Pt. KtP 
21 Qt. P QR t. P (PF) 
22 K to R sq K to R sq 
23 R to Kt aq B to K sq 
24 Rto Kt 3 Pt. P 
25 Pt. P Kt to Kt 5(G) 
26 Kt to Kt 4 R to Kt sq 
27 Ktt.RP()(H) Rt. B 
28 Rt. KR K t. Kt 

White. Black. 
29 Rt Kt(!)() Bt B2 
30 QRtoKtsq Kto Ki2 
31 PtoBS Pt. P 
32 Qt. BP Rto K K sq 
33 KR to Q Kt6 RtoR3 
34 P to K 6 B to K sq 
35 Qt.QP QtoR5 
36 RK to Kt 7ch K to Kt sq 
37 RtoK Kt2 QtoK8ch 
38 R to Kt sq Rt. P ch (J) 
39 Kt. R QtoB7 ch 
40 Q to Kt 2 Q to R 5 ch 
41 QtoR3 Q to B7 ch 
42 Rto Kt2 Qto Bich 
43 R to Kt 3 Q to Q7 ch 
44 Q to Kt 2 QtoR3 ch 
45 K to Kt sq Q to B 8 ch 
46 Q to B sq Q to Q7(K) 
47 Rt. Peh(!})(L) Bt R 
48 Rtokt8ch KtoR2 
49 Q to R 3 ch Resigns. (M) 

[The notes are by the Editor. } 

(A) Owing to the form of the 

ning selected by Mr. Lee at his 

5th and 7th moves, we believe 

that up to this point Black bas the 

best of the game. The policy of 
this move is doubtful. 

| rom 
NIVERSITY 

r 

PRINCETON U 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 347 

(B) A singular move, but made 
evidently with the object of playing 
Kt to B 5, and getting command 
of the open file if the Knight be 
taken. 

(C) Black can now force the ex- 
ae of Knights, and opening of 
his Knight’s file for the Rook, 

(D) Mr. Lee plays as usual for 
the direct attack. 

(E) Prepared to sacrifice his 
Queen’s Knight’s Pawn to obtain 
an opening on the adverse King. 

(F) There seems no danger in 
this capture, but its expediency is 
doubtful, and as followed up by 
Black it leads to the loss of the 
game, 

(G@) Certainly unadvisable: he 
goes in to win another Pawn, but 
admits the hostile Knight into the 
heart of his game. 

(H) A beautiful move, and ap- 

parently quite sound. The Queen 
is, of course, lost if it takes the 
Knight, and if King takes Knight 
the following moves given by Mr, 
Guest in his notes to this game in 
the Morning Post show that the 
game is equally lost : 

28 QtoRich K to Kt 2 
29 Bt.P K to B sq 
30 QRto K Kt sq Bt.B 
31 Rt.B RtR 
32 QtR QtoB2 
33 Qto R 6 ch K to K sq 

34 R to Kt 7, 

aud White remaims with Queen 
against Rook and Knight. 

(1) Again beautifully played. If 
the Rook be taken White mates in 
three moves by Q to R 4 ch, Q to 
B 6 ch, and Rook mates. It isa 
pleasure to see Mr. Lee’s dashing 
play successful against a player 
who systematically skulks under 
the protection of the French Game. 

(J) Black having a lost game, 
naturally goes in for the ignis jaiuwus 
of a gi “eee check, the last re- 
source of desperation under such 
circumstances. 

(K) The checks are at an end, 
and Black can only await his fate. 

(L) Mr. Lee winds up the game 
with his usual ingenuity when he 
holds a winning position. This 
sacrifice brings the game to an end 
in the speediest manner. 

(M) Mate cannot be postponed 

A via dave K t. Kt beyond five moves at most. 
Game 274, 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. White. Black 

F. S. Exsor. }j C.J. Lawpent. 10 PtoB3 KttoK R4 
1PtK4 PtoK3 1l KttoBsy(C) Bt.B 
2 KttoK B3 PtoQ4 12 Pt.B Kt to B 5 
Ss Pt.P E4.£. 13 QteQB2 Kt t. B ch 
4PtcQ4 KttoK B38 14 Qt. Kt Qto BS 
5 BtoQ3 BtoQ3 15 Kt to Kt 3 Q to Kt 3 
6 BtoK 3 Castles 16 Qt.Q RPt.Q 
7 Q Kt to Q2 (A) Rto K sq 17 K toQ2 (D) B to B 4 (?) 
8 PtoK R3 BtoBd 18 Ktt.B P t. Kt 
9QtoK2(B) KttoQB3 19 PtoK Kt4(!)(E)P t. P 

il ron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

348 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

White. 

20 Pt. P 

21 Rto R 8 (!) 
22 KttoK 5 
23 QR to Rsq 
24 Kt t. Kt 
25 RtoR8 ch 

26 Rto K Bsq ch 

os 
bo 
= 
essee 
SHS RARE 
at PS porn 
~ ~ 

Ont 
my w 
Ta oN 

RSRRSSBSSREE 
RHROM RA 
Sr esorss 

nal 

] 
— 
& 

° 
i 

Black. 

R to K 5 

Kt to K 2(F) 

Kt to Kt 3 

R to K sq (G) 

Pt. Kt 

KtoB2 

K to K 2 

RtoK Kts (H 
Na) 

PtoQR8 

[The notes are by the Editor. } 

(A) In opposition to the canons 

laid down 

this dullest of dull O 
order immediate Cas' 

y the authorities on 
ope nings, which 

ing forsafety’s 

sake, before proceeding with de- 
ee ment, Mr. Ensor refuses ‘to 

(B) This looks more perilous 
than it is in reality. 

(C) The move relied on by White 
to meet the attack. 

(D) The Queens being off the 
board the White King can at once 
come into play, with promise of 
power in the coming end-game. 

(E) This challenge forces an 
opening for the Rooks against the 
Black King. 

(F) The capture of the Pawn 
wala cost at least a Rook. 

(G) The only move to avoid 
immediate loss. 

(H) There seems to be nothing 
better than this servile defence. If: 

: eee K to Q sq 
28 Rt. P RtKP 
29 KRtoB?7 R to K 7 ch 
30 K to Q sq Rto K 8 ch 
31 KtoB2 Rto K 7 ch 
32 K to Kt3 R (fr. K 7) to 
K 2 (best) 
33 RtR RtR 

34 Rt. P, and should win. 

(1) Changing Rooks gave the 
best chance of a draw. 

(J) It is impossible at this point 
to find a good move for Black. 
The one made loses speedily, but 
there was no escape from ultimate 

behind his Rook.” defeat. 
Game 275. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
L. Bewima. C. J. Lampert. 8 KttoK2(A) BtoK Kt5(') 
1PtoK4 PtoK3 9 Kt to Kt 3 Bt. Kt 
2Pt.Q4 PtoQ4 10 Pt.B Ktt.P 
3 KttoQB3 KttoK B3 11 Bt. P ch pee 
4PtP Pt. P 12 Qt. Kt Sie il 
5 BtoQ3 BtoQ3 13 Q to Kt 4 (C) t. Kt 
6 KttoB3 Castles 14 RPtB PuB4 
7 Castles Kt to B3 15 Qt R38 QtoB3 

Iriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT, 349 

White. Black. 
16 KtoKt2(D) QRtoK sq 

17 Rto R sq Qto K Kt3 
18 BtoB4(E) RtoK3(F) 
19 Rto R 2(?) K R to K sq 
20 QR to Rag (G) Kt to BS 
21QtoR4 Rto K 7 (!) 
2 RtQBsy PtQs 
23 BtoKt8(7) PtoR3 
24 Bto R 7 (?) Kt to Q 2 
25 PtoB3 PtP 

26 QtoB4ch Qtok3 
27Qt.PatB6 PtoQKt3 
28 QRtoK Rsq(H)K to B 2 
29 RtoR8 QtoQ4 
30 QRtoR7 QtoQs 

31 Q1.Q Pt.Q 

32 KR to R sq Rt.R 

33 RtR Pt.Qé 
34 K to B sy Rt. Kt P (1) 
35 K to K sq Rt. RP 
36 Bto Kt 8 Kt t.B 

37 Rt. Kt R to Kt 7 
38 RtoQs8 PtoQ7ch 
89 Rt. P Rt.R 

40 Kt.R KtoK3 
41 KtoQ3 KtoQ4 
42 PtoB4 PtoR4 
43 Pto BS PtoQ Kt4 
44 Pto Kt4 P to Kt 3 (!) 

Resigns. 

(A) This move, which is gene- 
rally practised when Black has 

layed 7....P to B 3, is not to 

commended in the present varia- 

tion. 8 Bto K Kt 5 is probably the 
best move. 

(B) 11 .... K t. Kt would, 
perhaps, have been stronger. 

(C) £13 Qt. P, Bt. Kt,14 Qt. 
Q, Bt. R Pch, 15 Kt. B,Q Rt. 
Q, and Black has a slight advan- 
tage. This line of play would, 
nevertheless, have been preferable 
to the move in the text, which 
suffers Black to remain with a 
majority of Pawns on the side 
away from the Kings. 

(D) Initiating a show of attack 
on the King’s Rook's file, which 
proves to be quite futile. 

(E) Black threatened 18 .... 
P to B 5. 

(F) The best way of meeting 
White’s demonstration. 

(G) All this is waste of time or 
worse, as the event shows. He 
should rather do his best to fortify 
his left flank. 

(H) Apparently the only means 
of preserving his self-immured 
Bishop. 

(I) 34 .... R to K 2 would 
have been simpler and shorter, 

Game 276. 
TRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

T. H. Pivzr. W. A. Lixpsay, 
1 KttoK B3 PtwoQB4 
2 P to K 4(A) KttoQB3 
3 KttoB3 PtoQ3(B) 
4PtoQ4 rte 
5 Ktt. P P to K 4(?) 
6 Kt to Kt 3 BtoK 3 
7 BtoQ Kt5(C) PwQR3 
8 BtoK 2 Kt to B3 

White. Black, 
9 Castles BtoK2 
10 PtoB4 Pto K Kkt3 
1l BtoK3 P toK R4(D) 
12 PtoBd5 PtP 
13 Pt. P Bt. Kt 
14RPtB P to Q 4(E) 
15 Bto K Kt 5 PtoQ 
16 Bt. Kt Bt B 
17 KttoK 4 Bto Kt 4 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

850 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

White. Black. 
18 PtoBé6 B to K 6 ch 
19 K to Req Q to B 2 (F) 
20 Bt. P Castles Q R 
21 Bto Kt4ch K to Kt sq 
22 QtoK 2 BteoBS5 
23 BtoR3 Kt to Kt 5 
24 PtoB3 PtoQé6 
25 QtoB3 Kt toB7 
26 Rto R 4 (!) Kt to K 6 
27 K R to R sq Q to B 3 (!) 
28 Rto Kt4 QRtoKtsq(G) 
29 KttoB5(!) Qt.Q 
30 Kt t. P ch K to R sq 
31 KttoBédis.ch K to Kt sq 
32 Pt.Q K to B 2(H) 
33 Rt. P ch KtoB3 
34 BtoQ7 ch K to Q 4 (T) 
35 PtoK R38(J) PtoQ7(K) 
36 KttoK4(L) Rt. Pech (M) 
37 Bt. RB Rto K Rsq (!) 
38 RtoQ7ch(N) KtoB3 
39 RtoR6ch(O) Kto Kt 4 
40 K RtoQ 6 Rt. Beh 
41 K to Kt sq P queens ch 
42 Rt.Q Kt t. R 
43 Rt. Kt Rt. P 
44 KttoQich KtoB4 
45 Pto Kt 4ch K to B3 
46 PtoKt5ch(?) Kto Kt 3 
47 Ktt. P P to K 5 (!) 
48 RtoKsq(P) PtoK 6 
49 PtoB4(Q) RtoB7 
50 Kt to Q 8 Bto R7 ch 
51 K to R si PtoK7 
52 PtoB? BtoQ3 
53 K to Kt sy BtoB4 
54 PtoKt4(R) BtK6 
55 Kt to BG Rte BB ch(8) 
56 K to Kt 2 Rt. R 
57 P queens RK to Kt 8 ch 
58 KtoR2 RtoR8ch 
59 Kt. RK P queens ch 
60 K to Kt 2 Q to Kt 8 ch 
61 K toR3 Q to R 8 ch 
62 K to Kt3 Q to Kt 8 ch 
63 K to R 3 QtoR8ch 

Drawn game. (T) 

(A) The Opening is now resolved 
into a Sicilian Defence. 

(Bb) This eontinuation was 
adopted several times by Herr L, 

Paulsen in the Vienna Tournament 
of 1882, and is by some players 
preferred to the more usual course 
of 3.... PtoK 3. 

(C) A lost move, as the reply 
shows; for the exchange of the 
Bishop for the Knight would 
strengthen Black’s centre. 

(D) Well conceived, If 11.... 
Q to B 2, with a view to Castling 
on the Queen’s side, White may 
reply with 12 Kt to R 4, threaten- 
ing to play Kt or B to Kt 6. 

(E) Best. Black has pow an 
excellent game. 

(F) Very characteristic of Mr. 
Lindsay’s style. The sacrifice of 
the King’s Rook’s Parvn is, I be- 
lieve, quite sound. 

(G) Up to this point White has 
pushed his attack with great ac- 
curacy and vigour; but here he 
fails just as victory is within his 
grasp. 28....P to R4, followed 
by 29..... P to Q7, would have 
forced the gain of a piece. Of 
course, if 28 .... P to Q 7 at 
once, White replies with 29 Kt t. 
P, threatening 30 Qt. Q. The 
position is higbly interesting, and 
will well repay careful examination. 

(H) The only move to avert 
mate. 

(I) Again his only resource. If 
34.... Kt. Kt, White mates in 
three moves by 35 R to R Sch, 
36 Rto R 6 ch, and 387 KR to Kt 5, 
mate, 

(J) The position is hereabouts 
of intense interest. Both Kings 
are within an ace of immediate 
destruction, 

(K) Black might have forced the 
draw here, either bv 35 .... Rto 
Kt 7, 36 Ktt. P('!), K Rt. P ch, 
37 Bt. R, Rt. Beh, 38 K to Kt 
sq, R to Kt 6 ch, and White will 
lose if he attempts to escape vid 
Bishop’s second; or more simply 
by 35..,. R to Kt 7, 36 Kt t, 

Iriginal from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 351 

P('), R to R 7 ch, &. In the 
latter case, if he proceed with 37 
.-.. Rto Kt sq ch, 38 Bto Kt 4, 
Kt t. B, 39 Kt t. B ch, Pt. Kt, 
40 BP t, Kt (40 R Pt, Kt, K R to 
K R sq, and wins), Rt. RP, 41 
Kt. P, Rt. P ch, 42 K to B 2, and 
White should win. 

aoe Finely played; the Black 

King now appears hopelessly he- 
leaguered. tt 36. P queens 
ch, “he is mated in two moves. 

(M) His only resource. 

(N) Best. If: 
38 Rt. P Rt. Beh 
39 K to Kt sq Rt. P(!) 
40 Ktt. P R to Kt 6 ch, 
aud White must consent to a draw, 
or play: 
41 KtoB2 R to Kt 7 ch 
42 KtoB3 K to K 8 (') 
48 K RtoR7 Rt. Kt 
44 KtoK4 

(44 K R to K 7 ch, K to B 4, and 
Black should win.) 
Babess Kt to B 4, 
and White has certainly no advan- 
tage. 
(O) The simple move 39 Rt. Q 

P should win, but the mode adopted 
by White should have proved suffi- 
cient if correc‘ly followed up. 

(P) A mistake. 48 R to K B 
sq would have won easily. 

(Q) Even now 49 Rto K B si 
or Kt to Q 8 would have given 
White fair prospects of victory. If 
49 R to K 2, Black replies with 49 

_R to Kt 6 ch and 50. 
R to Kt 3. After the move in tho 
text the draw is forced. 

(R) The only move, 54 Kt to 
K 6 would have lost the game on 
account of 54.... R to B 8 ch, 
55 K to Kt 2, Rt. R, 56 Kt t. B, 
R to Kt 8 ch, 57 K t. R, P queens 
ch, 58 K to Kt 2, Q to K 7 ch (58 

... Qto K 2, 59 P queens, and 
wins), 59 K to R sq, Q to B 6 ch, 
60 K to Kt sq, Q to K 6 ch, and 
wins. 

(S) The proper move; 55 . 

Rt. P dis. ch would have lost. The 
termination of this game is beauti- 
fully played by Mr. Lindsay. 

For, if K to Kt 4, Black has 
still a perpetual check at Knight’s 
seventh and Rook’s seventh, 

——*-A——— 

(Game 277. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White Black. 

T. H. Preer. J. 1. Mixcury, 

1 KttoK B3 PtoQ4 
2PtoK3 KttoK B38 
3 PtoQ4 P to K 3 
4PtoQB4 PtoQ Kt3 
5 Bto K 2 BtoQ3 

6 Kt toQB3 Castles 

7 Castles PtoQB4 
8 PtoQ Kt3 Kt toQB3 
9 Bto Kt 2 B to Kt 2 
10 RtoQ Bsq RtoQ aoe 
1l Kt toQR4 Pt. 
12 K PtP Pt; OBPE 

White Black. 
13 Pt.P RtoK 
14 Kt to K 5 Bt. Kt 
15 Pt.B Kt to Q2 
16 Pt KB4 QtoK2 
17 QRtB3 K Rto Q sy 
18 Q to Kt sq (C) KttoQ5 
19 BtoQsq(D) Pto Kt3 
20 RtoQ3 Kt to Q B4 
(BE) 
21 Rt. Kt (F) RtR 
22 Bt.R Kt t. Kt 
23 Bt. Kt RtP 
24 Q to Q sq Q to Kt 5 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

$52 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

White. Black. 
2 BtKB2 QtB 
26Qt.Q8ch KtoKt2 

27 Q to B 6 ch, and draws by 
perpetual check. (G) 

(The notes are by the Editor.] 

(A) The game has been opened 
by both according to the best 
models of this favourite form of 
the close game. 

(B) The change of this second 
Pawn is of doubtful expediency. 

(C) With an eye to attack, more 
than merely to move the Queen 
from the masked range of the 
Rook. 

(D) White now threatens to win 
a piece by R to K KR 3. 

(E) The offer of this piece is 
quite sound, and, in fiuct, wins a 
Pawn, but the position, unfortu- 
nately, leaves White with a forced 

(F) If: 
21 Bt. Kt Kt t.R 
22 Qt. Kt Q to Q 2, 

winning the Bishop, and remaining 
with the exchange ahead, and an 
excellent game. 

(G) White might lose the game 
if he did not take the perpetual 
check, though there is one neat 
variation, affording a trap into 

which Black might carelessly fall : 

27 BtloR4 R to B sq 
28 BtoB6 ch KtoR3 
29 B to Kt 4 ch K to R 4 

30 PtoK R3()), 

and Black is mated if he take the 
Queen, 

ee Bt. P 
31 QtR Bt. R, 

and Black can draw, at least. In 
every other variation Black obtains 

draw. The retreat of the Knight a winning advantage by Qt. R P 
would have left White with slightly or Q to K 5, according to circum- 
the better game. stances. 

Game 278. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. 

T. H, Preer. F. 8, Evsor. 

1 KttoK B3 P to Q 3 (A) 
2PtcK4(B) PtoKB4(C) 
3 KttoB3 P+. P 

4 Ktt. P P to K 4 (D) 
5 Pt Q4(!) PtP 

6 Qt. P(E) B to Q 2 (F) 
7 Bt K Ktd KtteQB3 
8 QtK3 B to K 2 

9 Bt QB4 BtoBé4 
10 Castles Q R Bt. Kt (G) 
11 Qt. B K to B sq 
12 Qt.Qs Q to K sq 
13 Qto Bd ch B to B 3 (H) 
14 Bt. Kt Kt. B 
15 Bt. B Qt B2 

White. Black. 
16 KttoKt5(!) QtB 
17 QtoQ5ich K to B sq 
18 KttoK6ch KtoK2 
19 Ktt.Q BP QR toQBsq 
20 KRtoKsqch KttoK 4 
21 Qt. Kt P K to Q sq 
22 Kt to Kt 5 KttoQ Bi 
23 Ktt.QP Q to Bi ch 
24 K to Kt sq Resigns. (I) 

(A) Not a commendable reply. 
(B) 2 P to Q 4 seems preferable. 
(C) Black might have converted 

the Opening 

into a Philidor’s 

Defence by 2....Pto K 4, and 
this would have been better than 

inal tr 

PRINCETON UNI VERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 353 

the course actually adopted, which 
leaves him far behind in the de- 
velopment of his forces. He might 
also have played 2.... Kt to KB 
3 without disadvantage. 

(D) Premature. It would have 
been better to play 4....B to B 
4,andif5 K Kt to Kt 5, then 5 
..+. Bt Kt, 6 Kt t. B, P toQ 4, 

7 Kt to B3, Kt to K B3, 8 P to 
Q 4,PtK3,9Bt.K3(9Bto 
K Kt 5, P to B 4), P to Q R38, 10 

B to Q 3, B to Q 3, Ke. 

(E) It is a sufficient criticism 
upon the mode of defence selected 
by Black that he has now nota 
single piece in action, while White's 
forces are in full play. 

(F) With the view of avoiding 

the pinning of the Queen’s Knight 
when played to Bishop 3. 

a (G) Black has a wretched game. 

UST QtrQ2 
ll Kt toBSd Q to Q B sq 
12 Bt. Kt Rt. B 

13 K R to K sq Q to Q sq 
14 Kt t. P Q to B sq 
15 KttoB5 Q to Q sy 
16 KttoQ4 Kt to K 4 
17 Bt. B Qt.B 

18 Kt t. B, and wins. 

(H) If18 ....KttoB3,14B 
t. Kt, B t. B, 15 Kt to Kt 5, &. 

(1) Mate cannot be delayed for 
more than a few moves. 

aha aan 
Game 279. 
FRENCH GAME. 

White. Black. White. Black. 
C. B. Vansrrrarr, T. H. Pree 24 Bt. Kt P R to K 3 (D) 
1PtK4 PtoK 3 25 BtoQ3 QR to K sq 
2PtQ4 P to Q 4 26 BtoK 5 Q to K 2 (K) 
3 KttoQB3 Kt to K B38 27 QtoKt4ch KtoBsq 
4Pt.P PtP 28 RtoBsqeh QtoB2 
5 KttoK B38 BtoQ3 29 Q to Kt 7 ch K to K 2 
6 BtoQ3 Castles 80 Rt Qch(F) KttR 
7 Castles PtoQB3 31 Qt.P RtoR8 
8 KttoK 2 Bto K Kt 5 32 Qto Kt 7 RtoK3 
9 Kt to Kt 3 QtoB2 33 B to Kt 6 R to B sq 
10 Rto K sq Q Kt to Q 2 34 Bt. Kt Rt.B 
1l PtoQB3 K R to K sq 35 QtoKtich KtoQ2 
12 BtoK 8 Kt to K 5 86 Q to Kt 8 KRtK2 
18 PtoK R38(A) QBt. Kt 37 Q to Kt8 KtoK3 
14 QtB Kt t. Kt 38 Pto K Kt4 RtoQ2 
15 Pt. Kt Bt.P 39 Q to K 8 ch KRtoK 2 
16RtoKBsq KttoKB3 40QtoKKt& KtoQ2 
17 BtoR6 Kt to K 5 41 Pto Kt5 R to B7ch 
18 Qto Kt4 PtoK B4(B) 42 K to Kt 3 Rt.QEtP 
19 Rt.P(!) B to R7ch 43 P to Kt6 Rt. 
20 K to R sq Kt to Kt 6 ch 44 Q to Q Kt 8, and wins. 
21 Kt.B Kt t. R dis. ch 
22 BtoK B4 Kt to Q 3 (A) This move loses a Pawn, 
23 QtoB 5 () PtoK Kt3(C) for which the attack subsequently 

Za 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

854 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

entered upon by White should not 
sufficiently compensate. 

(B) Initiating a combination 
which loses the game for Black. 
18....Pto K Kt3 was the correct 

reply. 

(C) He had nothing better. If 

have taken the Bishop, although 
White after the exchange of Queens 
would still have had the better 
game. 

(F) Immediately disastrous. He 
had, however, no good move. If 
26....QRto K 2, then; 

93....P to K R3, then: 27 Q to Kt 5 ch K to B sq 
24 Q to Kt 6 K R to Q sq 28 R to B sq ch K to K sq 
(best) 29 QtoKt8ch KtoQ2 
25 QtoR7 ch K to B sq 30 BtoB 5, 
= o to z pe | 3 to Q 4s and White wins. 
to Kt ec to Q: F) 30 Bt. Kt ch would have 
28 B to B 5 ch, Ke. it an end to any further re- 
(D) A bad move. He should sistance. 
Game 280. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black. White. Black. 

T. H. Pires. L. BENIMA. 30 Ktto Kt3(!) Bto B3(G) 
1KttoKB3 KttoQB3(?) 31 BtoKt3(H) Rito K 6(1) 
2 PtoQB4 PtoK3 32 Rt. BC!) PtR 
3 PtoK 3 Kt to B38 33 Q to Q 4 Rt. B (J) 

4 KttoB3 PtcQ4 34 Pt. R BtoB4 
5 PtoQ4 PtQR3 35 Qt. P ch K to Kt sq 
6 BtoK 2 Bto K 2 36 QtoKtich Bto Kt 3(K) 
7 Castles Castles 37 Bt. B Qt. Kt (L) 
8 PtoQR3 Kt to K sq(A) 88 BtoB 2 dis.ch Resigns. 
9QtoB2(B) PtoB4 : : 
10 PtoBs Kt to B38 tron’ the il perhaps Mis fine 
ll P to Q Kt4 Kt to K 5 move, and has difficulty in develop- 
12 Kt t. Kt BPt. Kt ing his game. His present move, 
1 gts re tet’ 0) however, loses further time. Pro. 
15 QtoQ2 Bto Kt 4 pips his best se = was: 
16 Kt to B2 PtoB3 ong pe 
17 PtoB8 Pt. P gauos Shad a 
18 Rt. P Rt. RK ‘ * 
19 Bt.R Kt to B4 (B) White cannot as yet tell 
20 R to K B sq Qto K 2 where his Queen will be most use- 
21 QtoK 2 Kt to R 3 fully posted, and it would have 
22 BtoB 3 (C) Bto Q2 been better to proceed with 9 P to 
23 BtoKsq(?) PtoK 4(!) B 5. 
24 PtoK 4 Pt.KP (C) 22 P to K 4 was more pro- 
25 Bt. P PEL musing. 
26 Ktt. P R to K sq (D) (D) 26.... K to R sq would 
27 QtoB4ch K to Rsq have been somewhat embarrassing, 
28 BtoQB2 QtoK 6ch(E) but, if properly met, would have 
29 BtoB2 Q t. P (F) resulted in an even game. 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 855 

(E) Black here misses the path 
to victory by 28 .... Kt to Kt 5, 
threatening to win a piece by 29 
---- QtB. If 29Q to Q 5, Q 
to K 6 ch, and wins; if 29 BtoB 
2, Ktt.B, 30 Rt. Kt, Bto K 6, 
&e.; if 29 Kt to B 3, then: 

29 wees Kt to K 6 
30 Qto K 4 
(30 Q to Q 3, B to B 4.) 
eo Qt. Q 
31 Bt. Q Ktt. R 
32 Kt t. B R to K B sq 
(best) 
33 Kt t. P 

(33 Bt. P, BtoB4, 34 Bt. B,R 
t. B, 35 Kt to K 4, Kt to K 6, 36 
B to BQ, Kt to B 5.) 

See RtoBsd 
34 Kt to Kt 5 Kt to K 6 
35 BtoK B38 KttoB5 

and Black's material superiority 
should eventually win the game, 
Finally, if: 

29 Bto K Kt 3 PtoK R4 
30 QtoQ3(or A) Qto K 6 ch 
31 K to R sq aes t.Q 

to K sq, R to K 3, 37 Kt to Kt sq, 
P to Kt 4, 38 Kt to R 3, R toK 2, 
39 Bto B 4, B to Q 2, 40 B to Q 
3 (best), and Black wins by bring- 
ing his King to guard the Rook, 
and playing P to Kt 5 at the right 
moment. If again 35 Kt to B 2, 
Black wins by 35....R to Q sq, 
36....Bto Q 8, and 37....B 
to K 6, after which the White 
King can never escape.) 

Oe Scns R to Q sq 
36 BtoK 4 Bt. Kt 

37 Bt. B B to KE 6, &. 
30 PtoR3 QtoK 6ch 

31 Bto B2 (best) Ket. B 

32 Rt. Kt BtoR5 

33 Q to Q3 (best) Qt. Rch 

34 K to RQ R to K 5(!), 

and wins. 

(F) This ill-advised capture loses 

Black the game. 
(G) If30.... 

to B 7. 

(H) Very well played. 

(I) There is really nothing to be. 

Kt to B 4,31Q 

32 Bt. Q PtoR5d done. 
33 PtoR3 (J) If 88....Rt. Kt, 34Q t 

(33 B to Q 6, B to K 6, &e.) P ch, and wins. 
BS wc. Pt.B (K) 36....K to B2 was rather 
34 P t. Kt Bt P better. 
85 KttoBS (L) Generously sparing White 
(If 35 Kt to B 3, B to K 6, 36 R any further trouble. 

—_ + — 
Game 281. 
RUY LOPEZ, 

White. Black. White. Black. 
W. Moxpett. H. Ler. 10 PtoQ Kt 3(?) Castles Q RK 
1PtoK4 PtoK 4 11 Pt KB3 Kt to R 4 (E) 
2 KttoK B38 KttoQB3 12 Castles PtoB4 
3 Bto Kt 5 Kt to B3 13 QtoQ2 PtoBsd 
4Pt.Q3 B to B 4 (A) 14 BtoB2(F) QtoKt4 
5 BtoK3(B) Bto Kt 3(C) 15 Aer | K R to B sq 
6 Bt. Kt Q Pt. B(D) 16 Kt teQ B3 Rto B3 
7 Ktt.P Q to K 2 17 Rto K Kt sq (?) KttoKt6ch(!) 
8 KttoB4 BtoK 3 18 Bt. Kt Q t. B (!) 
9 Ktt.B BP t. Kt 19 K R to B sq RtoR8 

al fre 
PRI NCETO N UNIV ERS oT Y 

356 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

White. 

20 K to Kt sq 
21 K to B2 

bo po te bo 
otk OO 

i] 
~I 

28 

SSsss: 
TDOmnHOe 
=e ot 

= a 

= 

esessst 
AAR OR: 

sssssse"s 

Oo snony 

oe savin 2 
=> 

S2SSRESESRESASSSSSERESS 
bdo Sed Bt Bd eo a OP 

lag 

& 
oe 
— 

gSroRmserersS 
mS 

we Ro 
_ 

g 
Fino ms 
was 
m* 

THR RRR WOWS 
s* 
4 

ae 

essssssssrsscs 
Monon ROT RD 

sssss 

WHARA RRR 
AAR RHOR 
‘ss 

a 
ss 
=] 
& 

53 R to B 2, and White wins. 
(A) P to Q 8 is safer. 

(B) The following is the acknow- 
_ledged continuation ;— 

5 PtoB3 
6 Castles 

White. 

H. Ler. 
1PtoK4 
2BtoB4 
3PteKB4 
4PtoQ3 

Bto Kt 3 

7PtoQ4 

8 Bt. Kt Kt Pt.B 

9 Kt t.P Kt t.P 

10 RtoK PtoK B4 
1l Kt to Q 2, with the advantage. 

(C) Loss of time. He should 
play 5 Q to K 2. 

(D) It was rather better to take 
with the Knight’s Pawn, e.g. : 

ee? KtPt.5 
7 Ktt.P Q to K 2 
8 KttoB4 PtoQ4 
9 Ktt.B RP t. Kt, 

and Black has some attack for his 
Pawn. 

(EF) The first move of a series of 
ingenious manceuvres by which, 
aided by some weak play on the 
part of his antagonist, Black ob- 
tains a winning game. 

(F) If: 
14 Bt.P Ktt.B 
15 Qt. Kt QtoB4ch 
16 Rto B2 (best) QtoQ5 
17 PtoB3 Qt.QP 
18 QtoQ2 Q to R3, 

with a good game. 

(G@) Missing the winning move, 
292 R to Kt 3, which would have 
left White entirely without re- 
source. 

(H) Losing valuable time. He 
should have at once proceeded to 
free his Rook by 33 R to R 5. 

(I) If 87 K to Q 3, White wins 
by 38 P to K 5 ch. 

(J) Fatal. Taking the Rook 

QtoK 2 would have secured a draw at 
Castles least. 
Game 282. 

KING'S BISHOP’S OPENING. 

Black. White. Black. 
F, S, Exsor. 5 PtoKt3 Kt t. Kt P 
PtoK4 6 KttoK B3 QtoR4 
KttoK BS 7 Rto Kt sq P to K 5 (B) 
Kt t. P 8 Pt. KP () Kit. K P (C) 
QtoRSch(A) 9 QtoK2 PtoQ4 

PRINCETON u NIVE RSIT 

BS 
rs 

18 BtoB2 

Q 2(D) 
Kt 

VIZAYANAGARAM 

ti 
3m tal | 
bo 

erm w 
& 
~~ 

ress 
aS pa 

OwWROtRRO 
ss 

bo oo BY 

eS 

~ 
*s 

. 

Q to Q sq 

White mates in three moves. (F) 
(A) This sortie is unadvisable. 
Black should retreat the Knight 

to B 4. 

(B) 7....P to Q 4 is Black’s 
best move at this point, but White 
still maintains a fine attack, e.g. : 

CONT CBE CPaANaAaeRKNMrE COONS hu howe 
OVWUR TA DUVORRORORDT AR TORR URL 
Wes eSssesstossssssosskisers 
5 VOLO Bo PAA WA m 
to © b ow co aad 6 
S — 

Ss 
ORnoRnKe 

A 

Oo 

Co 

TOURNAMENT. 357 

Le ree PtoQ4 

8 Bt.P Ft P 

9 KttoB3 BtoQ Ktd(!) 
10 QBtP 4B 
11 Kt. Kt Castles 
12 Q to Q 2, &e. 

(C) 8....Q to Q B 4 would 

have been somewhat better. 

(D) White might here have won 
the k Queen for two minor 
pieces by 12 B to B 7 ch and 13 
Rto Rd. 

(E) 15....KttoQ 2 was more 
promising. 

(F) By 19 Rto K 8 ch, 20 B to 
B 5 cb, and 21 Q t. Q, mate, 

Game 283. 
GRECO COUNTER-GAMBIT. 

Black. White. Black. 

H. Les. 29 Kt to Kt 3 Pto K Kt 4 
PtoK 4 30 BPtP Kt t. Kt P 
PtwoKB4 31 Bt. Kt (J) Rt.B 
P to K 5 (B) 32 Kt to B4 PtoK6 
KttoK B3 33 Qt. P R to K sq 
BtoB4d 34 QtoB2 B to K 5 ch 
B to Kt 3 35 Kto R2 RtoB4 
Castles 36 KttoB5(K) BtoB6é 
PtoQ4 37 K R to K sq (L) Rt. Kt (!) (M) 
QBt.P 38 Rt.R Kt.R 
PtoB3 39 Q to K 8ch(N) Rto K 5 
Q to K sq 40 Ktt. RK Qt. Kt 
Q to Kt 3 41 Qt.Q Pt.Q 
PtoKR4 42 R to K sq BtoB3 
Q Kt to Q2 43 PtoQsd Bto B6 
KtoB2 44 RtoQ Ktsq PtoK6 
BtoB? 45 K to Kt sy B to Q 5 (O) 
KttoKt5ch(!) 46 K to B sq BtP 
PtB 47 R to B sq Bto K 5 
R to R sq (EB) 48 KtoK2 B to B 6ch 
RtoR4 49 KtoQ3 Bto Q Kt 7 
QRtoR sq 50 RtoQ Ktsq PtoK7 
QtoB3 51 K to Q 2 BtoK 4 
Kt to B sq 52 R to Kt sq BtwoQsi 
Kt to K 3 53 R to K sq Bto B?, 
B to Q sq and Black won the game. 
QtoR3 
Pi. (A) Inferior to 3 Kt t. P or 3 B 
Q to R2 (1) to B 4, 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

$58 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

(B) 3.... P to Q 3 is considered 
better. 

(C) 4 Kt to K 5 seems stronger 
play; and, if Black reply with 4 
.... Kt to B 3, then 5 B to K 2. 

(D) The only reply. If 18.... 
P t. Kt, 19 Pt. P, and White must 
lose his Queen or be mated in two 
moves. If 18....K to Raq, 19 
Q Kt to B 8, and Black wins. 

(E) Black might have selected 
the simple continuation 19... .P 
t. P, 20 Pt. P(20P to K Kt 3, 
Kt to B 8, &c.), Q to R 3, 21 KR to 
Kt 8, R to R sq, 22 Q to Kt 2,B 
t.B P, 23 Bt. B, Q t. B, &. 

(F) 22 Kt to K 2 would have 
been better. 

(G) Black threatened 23....R 
t. P ch, 24 Pt. KR, Rt. P ch, 25 K 
to Kt 2, P to Kt 6, &. 

(H). Here again 24 Kt to K 2 is 
to be preferred. 

(I) Preparatory to the advance 
of the King’s Knight's Pawn. This 
game is played throughout by Mr. 
Lee with characteristic impetuosity. 

(J) Unadvisable. 31 Kt to B4 
would have led to an even game at 
least. 

(K) 36 Kt to Q 2 would have 
been much better. 

(L) 37 Kt from B 5 toQ 3 
seems more prudent. 

(M) Very well played. 

(N) If 39 Pt. R, Bt, P, 40 Q 
to K 3ch, B to K 2 dis. ch, 41 K 
to Kt sq, Q to R 8 ch, 42 K to B 2, 
P to Kt 6 ch, 43 K t. P, Qto Kt 7, 
mate. ; 

(0) 45.... P to K 7 would 
have been more expeditious. 

Game 254. 
KING'S BISHOP’S OPENING. 

White. Black. 
H. Lee L, Bayrta. 
1PwK4 PtoKk4 
2BtB4 P to QB3(A) 
3 Kt to K B3(B) PtoQ4 
£PiE PtP 
5 Bto Kt 5ch BtoQ2 
6 Bt. Bch Kt t. B 
7 Castles Bt Q3 
8 KttoQB3 Kt to K 2 
9 PtQ3 R to Q B sq 
10 B to K 3(?) P toQ Kt3(C) 
11 KttoK Kt5(D) PtoK R3 
12 QtoR5 (?) Castles 
13 KttoR3(E) KttoK BS 
14 QtoB3 PtoQ5 
15 Bt RP P t. Kt 
16 Pt. P Kt to Kt 3 
17 BtoQ2 PtoK5 
18 Qto K 2 Pt. P 
19 Pt. P R to K sq 
20 Q to Q sq B to Kt sq 

White. Black. 
21 PtcQ4 Kt to K 5 
22 Q Kto Bsq QtoB2 
23 PtoK B4 Kt t. B 
24 Qt. Kt RtoK 5 
25 Pto Kt 3 Q R to K sq 
26 PtoBd RtoK7 
27 Q to Q sq Q RtoK 6(F) 
28 Pt. Kt 

Black mates in three moves. (G) 

(A) This defence, which is more 
than a century old, is now seldom 
practised, and is not so good as 
2.... BtoB4or 2....Ktto 
K B38. 

(B) White should play 3 Q to K 
2; and, if Black answer with 3.... 
Kt to B 3, 4 P to B 4. 

(C) He might have advan- 
tageously continued with 10...- 

)regur il rom 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 359 

PtoQ 5,11 Kt to K 4,B to Kt sq, 
and, if12 BtoQ 2, PtoB4. 

(D) Premature. White should (a) By: 
rather have played 11 Kt to K 2. 28.... Rt. P ch 
(E) The loss of a piece cannot ae ae oferta 
be averted, and White would pro- , 
bably therefore have done better to —-—-: 
play some such attacking move as 29 Pt. BR Qt. P ch 
Pto B 4. 30 K to BR sq Q or R mates. 
Game 285. 
FRENCH GAME. 
White Black. White. Black. 

W. M. Gartre J, Wzsr, 34 PtoK Kt3(D) R to K 2(E) 
1Pt.K4 PtoK3 35 PoQKt+ PtP 
2KttQB3 PtQ4 36 Pt.P K to Kt 2 (F) 
8 PtoQ4 KttoK B3 37 RtoQBsq KtoB3 
4PtP PtP 38 Rto B5dB B to K sy 

5 BtQ3 BtoQ3 39 Rto RS P to Kt3 

6 KttoB3 Castles 40 RtoR6(G) RtoQKt2 
7 Castles PtoQB3 41 RtoR8 B toQ 2 

8 Kt to K 2 B to K Kt 5 42 BitoR6 R to B2 

9 Kt to Kt 3 QtoB2 438 RtoQ Kt8 P to Kt 4 
10 R to K sq Q Kt to Q 2 44 PtoR5(H) KtoK2/(1) 
ll PtoB8 QR to K sq 45 B to Kt 7 K toQ 3 

12 BtoK3 Kt to K 5 46 PtoR6 Rt.B 

13 QtoB2 Q Kt toB3 47 RtR B to B sq 
14 Kt to Kt 5 Kt t. K Kt 48 RtoQR?7 PtoBd 

15 Bt. Kt Bt. Kt 49 Q Pt. P ch K to B3 

16 RPtB Pto K R3(?) 50 KtoK3 PtoR5 

17 Bt. Kt PtB 51 Pt.P BtoK 3 

18 PtoB3(?) Rt.Reh(!) c2RtoK Kt? BtoBsq 

19 RtR Qt.P 53 PtoR? B to Kt 2 
20 QtoQ2 Ap 54 R to Kt 8 Resigns, 

21 Qto K B2 Qt.Qe : 

22 Kt.Q Pto K B4(A) ae Does domina Pawn aids 
23 Rto K R sq K to Kt 2 eeearway eer : 
24 RtoRS5 PtoBS5 (B) From this pomt White 
25 RtoR4 PtKB4 manauvres to force the entry of 
2% Rt.BP PtoK R4 his Rook into Black’s camp. 

27 RtoR4 K to R38 (C) Evidently this entry can 
28 PtoK B4(B) RtoK Ktsq only be effected on the Queen’s 
29 Bto K 2 Bto B2 side. 

30 RtoR3 R to K sq ) The object of this move is 
81 RtoRsqy(C) RtoK3 to lock the adverse King’s Rook’s + 
32 PtoR4 PtoR4 Pawn and to give Black the option 
33 BtoQs B to Kt 3 of several self-damaging moves, 

(F) Leading to a pretty finish. 

| fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

$60 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED iN THE 

(E) After this move I believe 
Black has a lost e. The Rook 
was required at £3 to support the 
Queen’s Bishop’s Pawn. It is not 
easy, however, to find any satis- 
factory continuation. If 34 .... 
K to Kt 2,35 P to Kt 4,P t. P (35 
....Pto Kt 3,36 Pt. P, Pt. P, 
37 R to Q Kt aq, &.), 36 Pt. P, 
K to B 3,387 RtoQ Bsq, BtoK 
sq, 388 P to R 5, and White ought 
to win. 

(F) It would have been rather 
better to play the Rook back to 
King’s third, in which case the 

ition would in a move or two 

ave become identical with that 
arrived at in note (E). 

(G) Much better than 40 R to R 
8 at once. 

(H) White could have won a 
Pawn by 44 Pt. P; but, after the 
exchaage of Pawns and Bishops, 
Black could have made a stubborn 
and perhaps successful resistance. 

(I) Which loses at once. The 
only feasible move was 44... . Rto 
R 2, in which case White intended 
to proceed with : 

45 R to Kt7 Rt. B (1) 
46 RUB K to Kt 3 
47 RtoQ6ch KtoKt2 
48 K to Kt 2, 

and the King’s Rook’s Pawn must 
fall in a few moves. 

Game 286. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White. Black. 
J. Lorn. W. M. Gartiz, 
1PtoK4 PtoK4 
2 KttoK B3 KttoQB3 
3 Bt B4 BtoB4 
4PtoB3 Kt toB3 
5 PtoQ4 PtP 
6 Pt. P B to Kt 5 ch 
7 K to B sq K Kt t. P 
8 P to Qi Kt to K 2(A) 
9 QtoQ4 Kt toK B3 
10 Bto K Kt Ktto Kt 3(B) 
ll KttoB3 B t. Kt (C) 
12 Pt. B Castles 
18 PtoK R4 PtooK R3 
14 PtoRS5 Kt to R sq 
15 BtoR4 -PtoQ3 
16 B to Q 3 (D) R to K sq 
17 BtoQ Kt5(E) BtoQ2 
18 Bt. B Qt. B 
19 Bt. Kt Pt.s 
20 Qt. P K toR2 
21 KttoQ4(?)(F) RtoK 4 
22 RtoR3 R to K Kt sq 
23 PtoQB4(?)(G) Q to Kt 5 
Resigns. 

[The notes are by Mr. J. Lord. 
(A) Kt to R 4 loses a piece. 

(B) If: 
10 dn PtoB4 
1l Qt K3 PtoQ3 
12 Bt. Kt Pt. B 

13 Q Kt to Q 2, with a good game. 
Also 11 Q t. Kt is worth consider- 
ing, and possibly sound. 

(C) If: 
|} ee PtoK R3 
12 R checks K to B sq 
13 Pt Q6(!) 
If: 
4 Pree BtoK2 
12 Rto K sq Castles 

13 P to K R 4, with a fine game. 
If 11... . Castles, 12 P to K R 4, 
with a strong attack. 

(D) 16 P to K Kt 4 would al- 
most compel Black to sacrifice a 
piece for three Pawns, without, 
however, getting a good game ; for 

| 

PRINCETON u NIVE SITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 361 

White would still keep a strong 
attack. If he does not give up the 
piece the further advance of the 
Pawns should be fatal. 

(E) This was a hasty, ill-consi- 
dered move; but if properly fol- 

lowed up White should still keep 
the better game. 

(F) 21 R to R 4 would now se- 
cure White the advantage, I believe. 

(G) An astonishing oversight. 

Game 287. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White Black. 

J, Lov. F, 5, Exsox. 
1PtK4 P to K 4 
2 KitoK BS KtteQB3 
3 BtoB4 BtoB4 
4 PtoB3 Kt to B3 
5 PwQ4 Pt.P 
6 Pt.P B to Kt 5 ch 
7 KtoBsy(A) PtoQ4(B) 
8 Pt.P K Kt t.P 
9 KttoB3 B t. Kt (C) 
10 Pt.B Castles 
11 KttoKt5(D) BtoB4 
12 QtoB3 BtoK3 
13 B to Kt 3 PtoKR3 
14 PtoK R4 P t, Kt (?) (BE) 
15 Pt.P PtoK Kt3 
16 Q to K 4(?) (F) K to Kt 2 (!) 
17 PtooQB4 R to R sq 
18 Rt.R Qt.R 
19 Pt. Kt Bt B4 
20 Qt B4 R to K sq 
21 BtoK3 R to K 5 (G) 
22 Pt. Kt Rt.Q 
23 Bt. R Qto R8ch 
24 K to K 2 Q t. R (H) 
25 Pt.P Qt.QP 
26 P queens Q t.B 
27 Qt. RP Qt Q3 
28 QtoK3 Q to R3 ch 
29 KtoB3 Q to B 3 ch 
30 K to Kt3 Q to Q 3ch 
31 PtoB4 K to B sq 
32 K to B2 Bto Q 6(?) (1) 
88 QtoK 5 Qt.Q 
34 Pt.Q K to K 2 
35 KtoK 3 BtoR3 
86 KtoQ4 B to Kt 2 

White. Black. 
37 P to Kt3 B to B sq 
38 K to B5 BtoQ2 
39 PtoR4 5B to B sq 
40 K to B6 K to Q sq 
41 PtoRSd Resigns, 

(‘The notes are by Mr. Lord.] 

(A) An ugly-looking move, so 
not likely to be in general favour, 
but it has some points. 

(B) Kt t. P gives White a 
strong attack: see the game be- 
tween Lord and Gattie. 

(C) If 9.... Kt t. Kt,10 Pt. 
Kt. If Bt. P, then I think White 

gets a fine game by 

11 Q to Kt 3 Bt.R 

12 Bt. P ch K to B sq 
13 Bto R3 ch Kt to K 2 
14 Kto K 2 

If again : 

9 S. BtoK3 
10 Bt. Kt Bt.B 

11 QtoK2ch Bto K 2 
12 Qto Kt 5 Bt. Kt 
13 Pt. B, &. 

(D) Black has now a difficult 
ame, for the Knight cannot be 
islodged for some time. 
(E) Very imprudent, and should 
lose the game. 
(F) Missing the winning move, 
16 B t. Kt (!), for as the Bishop 
could not be taken, White would 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

362 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

remain with a winning game and 

a Pawn ahead 

(G) Checking with Queen and 
winning the exchange was better. 

This move 
White's game. 

White. 

J. I. Mixcuin, 

S 
tO 

4 
— 
i 
@ 

ee et 
kK SOO MONS Ore 
co 
eartor 

a 
~ s 
© 

05 89 fo Po NO tS bo be Ps — 
SS OO 95 Co Or i Oe tS oa 
BRE ROWWRWHOU RRO RRO 
"SSSHSSSSSRS ISS RS SST SH 
S SH wes - BROOMS 
Do" =""Oawt > 
is) Eo oe 
e 

Rootes 

AROD 
osg 

S 
w 
Ww 
eo ne 
> 
~ 

HS vo by bo 
~ 
re} 
— 

(H) 24....Q t. P was better, 
and would probably have won the 

game. 
(I) Very weak. He should avoid 

helps to improve exchanging Queens. 
Game 288. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Black. White. Black. 

J. LORD. 38 Rt. Beh Rt. R 
PtoKB4 39 Bt. Kt K to K 2" 
PtoK3 40 BtoB? K to K 3 (!) 
KttoK B3 41 BtoR 6G K to B2 
P to Q Kt 38 42 BtoQ3(?)(H) RtoQBsq(! 
B to Kt 2 43 Bt. P RtoBé6 
PtoQB4 44 K to K 2 Bt. P 
Pt.P 45 K toQ2 PtoR5 
B to Kt 5 46 BtoBi RtoR8§ 
Bt. Kt 47 BtoB2 PtoR6 
PtoK R3 48 KtoB3 PtoRT 
Pt.P 49 B to R 3 (1) RtoQ Kt8 
Castles 50 Bto Kt 2 P queens 
Kt to K 5 51 Bt.Q Rt.B 
Pt. P (C) 52 BtoB5d RtoKR8 
QtoK B3 53 PtoR4(?)(J) Rt. P 
P to Q4 54 KtoKt4(?) Rt. Pch 
Q t. Q (D) Resigns. 

Kt toQB3 

Kt to B38 [The notes are by the Editor.] 

K toR2 ‘ 

Kt toQR4 the action of the King’s Bishop, it 

ts Be Black changes Pawns, is here ad- 
q } 

Ktto BS5 visable, 

Bt. Kt (B) This is perbaps not quite 

B to Kt 4 sound, but it produced a most diffi- 

B toQ2 cult game for both parties, and did 

> to K a not actually result in loss. 

ashy 2 (E) (C) If 14 Ktt. Pat QB 3, 

R to B2 15 QtoQ4 QtoB3 

Rto K 2 16 Qt. Q Rt. Q 
Q BR to Q sq 17 Bto Kt2 Kt to K 7 ch 
K to Kt sq 18 KtoR Rt K3 
K to B sq 19 K B to K sq KttoB5 
Kt to B 4(G) 20 Pt. P, and however Black play 
Ktt. R he will have a difficult game, and 

inal fron 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMEN‘, 363 

cannot maintain even a numerical 
superiority. 

(D) Again taking the Queen’s 
Bishop’s Pawn with Knight does 
not yield any advantage. 

(E) It is doubtful whether the 
Knight’s Pawn was worth defend- 
ing at this cost. In a few moves 
Black's pieces get completely locked 
up. 

(F) An unnecessary precaution ; 
B to B 4 at once was stronger. At 
this point Mr, Minchin was sum- 
moned to attend an important 
meeting of the Committee, and 
when the game was resumed some 
days later he had only nine mi- 
nutes to make the next six moves, 
having in the meantime almost 
forgotten the peculiarities of a very 
difficult position. 

(G) Black was compelled to run 
some risk of this kind, and he 
trusted to White’s time pressure 
preventing him seeing his way 
clearly in the complications that 

arose. If the Knight be taken 
Black gets two passed Pawns for 
the piece. 

37 Pt. Kt Bt. B 
38 Rt. RK Bt. R 
39 Rt. B PtP 

The continuation chosen by White 
appears the best. 

(H) This weak move, made when 
there was no longer any pressure 
from the time limit, was without 
excuse, and threw away a hard-won 
victory. 42 B to K 5, followed by 
P to Q R 4, made winning a mere 
question of time, 

(I) Mr, Lord has taken the best 
advantage of his opponent’s weak 
play, and has nowa won game. If 
49 K to Kt 2, R to B 8 wins. 

(J) This and the next move were 
hallucimations arising from the 
mortification of having thrown 
away the game; but they were of 
no consequence, as at this stage the 
game was irretrievable, 

Game 289. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

White Black White. Black. 

L. Benita. J. Lorp 17 Qto Q sq Pto B4 
1PtoK 4 Pto K 4 18 KttoB2(C) Qto BS 
2 KttoK B3 Kt toQ B3 19 QtoB3 B to Kt 2 
3 Bto Kt 5 PtoQ3 20 PtoQR38(D) PtoQs 
4 Bt. Kt Pt. B 21 PtP Kt t. Kt 
5 PtoQ4 Kt to B3 22 Qt.Q Kt to R 6 ch 
6 Pt. P Kt t. P 23 K to Kt 2 Bt. Q ch 
72? Pt. P 24 Kt. Kt RtoK3 
8 Castles Bto K 2 25 P to K Kt 4 K BR to K sq 
9 Rto K sq PtooK B4 26 KttoQ2 Rt. Beh 
10 QtoK 2 PtoQ4 27 Rt. R Rt. Rech 
1l Kt to K 5(?) (A) Q to Kt 8 (!) 28 KtoR4 Bto K 2 ch 
12 PtoQB3(B) Castles 29 Pto Kt5 Bto Kt 7 
13 BtoK 3 hanes 30 Resigns. 
14 PtoK B4 B to 
15 Kt to Q3 tah 44 [The notes are by Mr. J. Lord.] 
16 PtoK Kt3 Q KB to K sq (A) Leading only to destruction. 

lriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

364 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

(B) There is no good move. 

20 Pt. B 5 to Kt 2, 

(C) If: followed by Q to B 3, &e. 
18 KttoK 5 Bt. Kt (D) Weak, but his strength is 
19 Qt. Pch K to K sq gone, 

Game 290. 
RUY LOPEZ. 
White Black. White. Black. 

W. E. Vyas. W. A. Luxpsay. 34 Bto Q 6 R to Q sy 

1PtoK4 PtoK 4 35 Bt. Kt Bt. B 

2 KttoK B38 KttoQB3 The game was contested for 

3 Bto Ktd KttoK B3 many more moves, and was finally 

4PtcQ3 PtoQ3 drawn. 

5 PtoK R38 B to Q2 2 

6PtoQB3 PtoKR3 [The notes are by the Editor. | 

7BtoK3 PtoR3 (A) The game has been carefully 

8 BtoR4 PwQkKt4 opened on both sides, with a com- 

9 BtoB2 PtoQ4 slete development of the forces 
10QKttoQ2 BtoK3 ore any attack is attempted. 
sa Nt ae (A) (B) Black's threatened capture 
13 PtoQR3 Q to Q2 of the King’s Rook’s Pawn compels 
14 Kt t, P(B) Bt. Kt White to break up the position. 
15 Pt.B Q Kt t. P (C) Necessary to prevent the 
16 PtooK B4 Kt to B 6 advance of the King’s Bishop's 
17 Kt t. Kt Q Pt. Kt Pawn, and guard the threatened 
18 QtoB3 QtoB3 mate. 
19 BtoQ4 Kt to R2 : 
Sods Berg «= g Cen hE a 
21 Qto Kt3 P to B 3 (C) exchange. - 
22 Q Rto K sq (D) BR to Kt sq 2 
23 Pt. KS Pt. P (E) 24 Q toQ 3 seems better: 
24 Rt. P R to B 2 (BE) In reply 25 Qt. Kt P ch, though 
25 Bto K 4 Q to Q8 tempting, would have been quite 
26 Q to Kt6(?)(F) Qt. Q unsound. 
27 Rto K 8ch R to B sq (F) Up to this point White has 
28 Rt. Rech Ktt. R played the attack with great 
29 Pt.Q BtoK 3 skill. He could here have greatly 
30 BtoK 5 R to K aq (!) strengthened his attack by 26 B to 
31 Bt. BP Bt. P Q 5, to which there was no satis- 
32 B to Q 5 ch BwkK3 factory reply, After the exchanges 
33 R to K sq K to R sq that follow the draw is forced. 

—~1o2o— 

PRINCETON u NIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 365 

Game 291. 
BISHOP’S OPENING. 

White. Black. 
J. 1. Miyeurm W. E. Vvsz. 
1PtK4 PtoK4 
2BweQB4 Kt toK B3 
3 KttoK B38 Kt to Bs 
4 Kt to Kt 5 PtoQ4 
5 Pt. P KttoR4 
6 Bto Kt 5 ch PtoB3 
7 PtP Pt. P 
8 BtoK 2 BtooB4(A 
9 PtoQ3 PtoKR3 
10 Kt to K 4 Kt t. Kt 
LP tt QtoQ Kt 3 
12 Castles BtoK 3 
13 PtoQB3 Kt to Kt 2 
14 Pto Q Kt 4 B to K 2 
15 BtwK3 Q to B2 
16 Kt toQ2 Kt to Q3 
17 BtoBd Q R to Q sq 
18 QtoB2 Castles 
19 QR to Q sq (B) K to R sq 
20 Q to R 4 (?) Kt to B sq 
21 Bt. B Kt t. B 
22 KttoB4 P to K B4 
23 RtR Rt. R 
24 Pt. P Bt. P 
25 RtoQs KttoQ4 
26 Q to Kt 3 BtoK 38 
27 KttoK 3 Q to B 2 (C) 
28 PtooQB4 R to K B sq 
OE Beta bg 
30 KtoR t. P (D) 
81 Ktt.B Q t. B(E) 
32 Kt to K 3 PtoK 5 
38 PtoK R3 PtoK R4 
34 Pt QR4 PtoR5 
35 QtoB3 PtoR4 
36 Pt. P K to R2 
37 Rto K sq QtoR3 
38 Kt to B 4 Q to R 2 (F) 
39 Qto K 3, 

and after a few more moves Black 
resigned. 

[The notes are by the Editor.] 

(A) Through Black not at once 

ushing Rook’s Pawn on Knight, 

hite is able to get a freeer game 
than he ought to at this opening. 

(B) Black has no superiority 
of development to show for the 
Pawn sacrificed. 

(C) Black over-estimates the 
attack to be obtained by the sacri- 
fice of the piece which this move 
entails. 27 Kt to B 5 seems to be 
the best continuation. 

28 Rt. Reh Qt R 

29 BtoB4 Kt to K 7 ch 
30 K to Bsq 

White maintains his Pawn. 

If: 

ee etexe Kt t. Kt 
28 Rt. Reh Qt. KR 

29 Qt. B, 

and equally maintains the Pawn. 

Of course if 30 P t. P, 31R 
to aq (!) 

(E) 31 P t. Kt might be a little 
better, as it secures two 
Pawns for the piece, but ite 
can stop their progress at once : 

32 Bto Kt 5 R to Q sq 
33 PtoK R3 PtoQsb 
34 Qt Q3 QtoB5 
35 R to K sq 

(F) A neat little trap ; if White 
takes the King’s Pawn he is mated 
in two moves. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

866 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

to K 4 

On dah 
sEsrrss 
oe 

ne 

AR AOARY 
tt 
+o 
a0 
or 

17 Qt. Q ch 

18 KttoR7eh 

so = 
2 eo 

a=) 

a) 

s 
Bs 
ay = 

Game 292. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

Black. 
C. B. VANSITTART. 
Pto K 4 
B to Kt 5 (A) 
Ktto KB 3(?) 

comets Om 
w ~ 
— 
Q 
—— 

s*sSssSssr 
Ont mon Aon 

ARODnDOONIA 
nD 
2 

co 
a 
a 
te 

and White won the game, 

ape tend 
aR 
oc 

Soon = 
QrAAw te 
4 

OAOOVtAACS 
ae oe 
ee ow 

a=) 

ss 
tg Oe ps 

woe oc 
2 
2 

Qupewrwe Soon 
we! 

fd peed fed fed fd det ed 
o ~- 
=) 
- 
Aes 
co 
oo 

= 
lee) 
Gt 
S 

(A) Not so good as 2.... Kt 
to K B 3, or2....KttoQB3 

(B) P to Q 3 was better. 
(C) If11.... Pt. B, then 

12 Qt. KBP ch K to R sq 

13 Rt. B(!) R to K 8 ch, 
or (A) 

14 Rto Bsq Rt. Rech 

(If 14....QtoK sq, 15 B toQ2.) 

15 Qt. R Q to Q 5 ch 

16 K to R sq QtoB3 

17 Bto Q 2, and White must win. 

A. 
US, cheshe Kt to Q2 
14 RtoR6 Kt to B sq 

15 B to Q 2, and wins. 

Game 293, 
FOUR KNIGHTS’ GAME. 

Black. 
I. GuysnEre. 

st 

Ove 
to 

ARCA N WORDS 
+ & 
Wor 

White. Black. 
17 PtoBé6 QtoBs 
18 RtoQ 4 Kt to K 3 
19 R to Kt 4 P to Kt 3 
20 Qto R4 K to R eq (F) 
21 RtoKt3(G) QRto Kt 

22 P to Kt 4(?)(H)Rt.P 
23 PtoK 4 

‘ R to B 5 (1) 
24 K to RB sq QtoQ Kt 5(J) 
25 RtoR3 PtoR4 
26 Rto BS (!) Kt to Kt 2(K) 
27 Pt. Kt ch K to Kt sq 
28 Rt.RP(!) (L) QtoK2 
29 RtoR8 ech K t. P 
30 QtoR6ch(?)(M)K to B 3 
81QtoB4ch KtoK3 
32 Pt. P ch KtoQ2 
33 Pt. P ch K to B sq 

| fre | 

NIVERSITY 

i 

PRINCETON U 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 367 

White. Black. 
4Rt.Reh QtR 
35 QtoK3 Qt.P 
36 Rto B38 P to B4 
37 QwQ3 RtoQKt5(N) 
38 PtoK R3 Rto BS 
39 Kt toQ5 QtoB4 
40 PtoB3 RtoK 5 
41 Rto B sq QioQ3 
42 R to Q sq P to K Kt 4 
43 PtoB4 PtoR 4 
4 Qt.QB3 QtoB4 
45 Q to R 8 ch K to Kt 2 
46 Rto Ktsqeh Resigns. 
[The notes are by the Rev. C. E. 

Ranken. } 

(A) Usually esteemed inferior to 
the Double Ruy Lopez, but a much 
more interesting defence. 

(B) Castling is preferable, for 
White could not win a Pawn by 
taking the Knight. 

(C) At this point Mr. Newham 
commences an excellent and well- 
sustained attack, 

(D) It would be better to retire 
the Bishop to Kt 3. 

(E) P to B 3 was imperatively 
demanded here. 

(F) Perhaps P to K R3 and K 
to R 2 would afford a better de- 
fence, but anyhow Black’s position 
is not nice. : 

(G) R to B 3 looks still more 
potent. 

(H) An oversight which, fortu- 
nately for White, does not destroy 
his attack. He ought to have 

played R to R 3 at once, and if 
Black replied with P to K R 4, he 
could safely continue with Q t. P 
ch. (a.) 

(I) Threatening Q to B 4 ch, 
&e., but really he has no time for 
this, and White’s answer should 
have been K R to B 3. 

(J) This diversion takes the 
Queen too far from her escort, and 
practically loses the game. 

(K) White’s last move was very 
good, and Black appears now to 
have nothing better than this 
sacrifice, 

(L) Also capitally played. It is 
evident that Black cannot take the 
Rook, and if he capture the Knight 
with Rook then follows : 

29 Rto R8 ch Kt. P 
30 Q to R 6 ch K to B3 
31 Qto B4ch KtoK 2 

32 Q to K 5 ch, and wins. 

(M) But here White misses his 
way, for he had a mate in four 
moves by 30 R to KR 7 ch, and 31 
QtoR 6, 

(N) Menacing, as his last chance, 
to take the Knight with Queen. 

(a) I doubt the validity of the 
sacrifice of the Queen here sug- 
gested, as Black will Ernie 2 
play Kt to Kt 2, and sacrifice 
his own Queen for the Rook and 
Pawn, remaining the exchange 
ahead. R to K B 5 would, how- 
ever, win in this position, as it does 
later in the actual game.—Epiror. 

rit inal rom 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

THE 

A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN 

368 

Game 204. 
MUZIO GAMBIT. 

Black. 

Black. White. 

I, GuNsnera, 

White. 

-_ : : ee aoe 8: 8 ~ 2 9 oc 
O = 0 < r=] e 3 tos fo bo 2§ = 
an aNG OO pel eta ’ = @ See a: 5 a ‘3 3 
wmam emote nO » Ban o Gq S823 Z% rer oS F, 
oR OD om OM pial oo a cop Ae p 33 PHEMes SSOrmu By we 
SSPSEsSsesssssssgssssy, A -s ti gsss Faves gz 33 
Fa 2 a i a a a a a a a ew a Ag Seago ses Fg 83 mz 
a ma bu we 2e “EB we. 2a Sa 
gs a Ggs fab 3h phd BEa a. 55 

wwe a = - a Be 2 - oe 
FoRmMaN Ont n So one saz Bye 3:3 FE 22488 
AMamaghoomes,tewaamad "gg -gb2 22 es6 gig gif a= 
Seesssseesaiugussasse # SSR les ae “on AGS wes Bz 
Bel A i bt 8 0 bt bet a a Bl he bt et bt et A Zs On 38 CF gets ase Ba Se 
a —_= a oe ~ > /!_- ~ 4 ~ 
FSSSRERRALRSRZSSSSTLE SZ mss Gf 8€& £83 at 3S 

~ o -~ 

~ os -_ = is a Ss = 2 = 
Ee o Ore so ra Ne hy - 
~ gs rll “Pe on #2 C8 Fan 60 2 00 Me pe Ene a om nN Te 20 oo ons 
+ OM iy 3 8 oe + bef ==) [om 

Mo i SR OM mag Ot MOM Mh Ramm MOM om. OM ohio, Me mee 

42 + ~ 4 

4 
sessutisessssissssssshest$8sessusmssssussugss 

owe = * o at x & eS) ae 
Femnae = ree i bet 1 bes malar einasd of Mortoa Tene? 
Bq SO. ge oma, madame mOtammotitn Mma manok 
See os usuZsSsssssVsussEssusFISSSIusSIuIsVsgssssy°e 
om RM OM CORR MOR OR ARR ROR ARERR RE RROR MARR Ramm Mme 
g INO MOOK MASH AR TREN OS RAARAARGRASSASSSSSBRITIVTS 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM TOURNAMENT. 869 

(H) Preferring to have for the 
end-game Bishop and two Pawns 
against Rook. 

(I) Although this move wins a 
valuable Pawn, yet it exposes 
White's left flank to the inroad of 
a warlike Rook. 

(J) Preparing to sweep off the 
Queen’s home Pawns. 

_ (8) White’s position is very 
difficult, He must do something 
at onec on the King’s side or 
Black’s Queen’s Pawns will kill 
him. 

(L) This leads to the loss of an 
important Pawn, but at the same 

time lures Black’s Rook away from 
the field of action. 

(M) The King now puts himself 
at the head of his forces and leads 
them on to victory with uncommon 
boldness and ability. 

(N) A simple move which para- 

lyses the adversary’s King and 
Rook. 
(O) If 50 .... R to Q R 2, 

White answers with 51 K to Q 6. 
(P) Safely reaching the square 
the possession of which he had 
coveted ten moves previously, 
(Q) He has nothing better’ 
White has a forced won game. 

Game 296. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White. Black, 
G. A. MacDonneE tt. T. H. Prrrr. 
1PtoKB4 Pto K 8 
2 KttoK B3 P to Q 4 
3 PtoK3 KttoK B38 
4PtoQ Kt3 BtoK2 
5 Bto Kt 2 Castles 
6 BtoK 2 PtoB4 
7 Castles KttoB3 
8 Pto B38 (A) Q to B 2 
9 KttoR8 R to Q sq (B) 
10 RtoQ Bsq(C) PtoQR 3 
ll Kt to B2 P to Q Kt 4 
12 K to R sq B to Kt 2 
18 QtoK PtoBdS 
14 GtoKts R to Q 2 (D) 
15 PtoQ3 KttoQR4 
16 QKttoQ4 BtoQ3 
17 Ktto K 5 Bt. Kt 
18 Pt.B Kt to K sq 
19 R to B 4 (BE) Qt.K 
20 QRtoK Bsq KttoK B3(F) 
21 BtoR3 KtoRs 
22 QtoR8 R to K Ktsq 
23 BtoQ Kt4 Kt to B3 
244 BtoQBS5 Pt, Kt P 
25 Kt t. Kt Bt. Kt 

White. Black. 
26 BtoQ4 QtoQ3 
27 Rt. Kt (G) Pt. 
28 Bt. P ch R to Kt 2 
29 QtoR6 Q to K Bsgq 
30 Pt. P K to Kt sq 
31 PtQ4(H) Rto Kt3 
32 QtoB4 Qt R3 
83 QtoK 5 Q to B sq 
34 Bto Q3 RtoR3 
35 RtoB3 Qt Q3 
36 Q to Kt 5 ch R to Kt3 
37 Q to R 5 (I) Q to Baq 
38 R to R3 (J) PtoR3 
39 Bt R Pt. B 
40 Qt. P ch R to Kt 2 
41 Qt. P K toB2 
42 Bt. R Qt. B 
43 R to B 3 ch Resigns 

(A) Not absolutely good; but 
commendable as giving an unhack- 
neyed phase to this Opening. 

(B) A faint spurt. It is seldom 
good at this — of the game to 

play K R to 

lf 

PRINCETON 

sq. 8....PtoQR 

28 

NIVERSITY 

370 A SELECTION OF GAMES PLAYED IN THE 

38 or 8....Qto Kt 3 would have 
been more judicious. 
(C) Best reply. 

(D) Queer, to say the least of it. 
Black, although a very talented 
player, has uot yet mastered the 
art of shaping his game properly. 

(E) Sacrificing a Pawn for an 
attack. 

(F) Otherwise White takes BP, 

(G) White’s forces are now all so 
harmoniously and also aggressively 
posted that they must achieve some 
signal advantage in the fray that 
here begins. 

(H) He can win the exchange 
presently with greater advantage. 

(I) Still mercifully, and at the 
same time cruelly, sparing the Rook. 

(J) The ending of the game from 
move 30 will well repay attentive 

no matter when, and wins. examination, 
Game 296. 
FOUR KNIGHTS’ GAME. 
White. Black. White. Black. 
J. 1. Mrxcurm, G. A, MacDonnzy. 31 QtoB2 QtoK Kt3 
1PtK4 Pto K 4 32 Q to Kt 3 K R to K sq 
2 KttoQB3 KttoQB3 33 Qt R38 P to B5 (1) 
3 KitoB3 Kt to B38 34 Q to Q7 ch Qto B2 
4 Bto Kt 5 Kt to Q5 35 Qt. Q Kt.Q 
5 BtoB4 PtoQ3 36 Pto K Kt 3 Rt. P 
6 Pt KR3 BtoK 3 37 Rt. R Rt.R 
7 BtB Ktt. B 38 Rt. KR PtR 
8 PtoQ3 Bto K 2 39 K to B sq K to Kt 3 (J) 
9 BtoK 3 PtoQ B4(A) 40 KtoK 2 Kt P 
10 KttoK2 Q to B 2 41 KtoB38 PtoK R4 
1l Kt to Kt 3 P to K Kt3 42 PtoQ Kt3 P to Kt 4 
12 PtoB3 PwQ4 43 Pt. P P4F 
138 PtP Ktt.P 44 PtoR3 PtoR3 
14 Qto R4ch K to B sq Resigns. 
15 Castles K R (B) > to B : (C) 
16 BtoR Gch to B ‘The note by the Rev. G. A. 
iI7QRtoKsq BtoB3 CS aaa ar 
t Rt 2 
+ se = Ae (D) Q R i we (A) Preparing for the attack 
90 KttoKtSch. Ktt. Kt should White venture to Castle on 
21 Bt. Kt BiB the Queen’s side. 
Pus K to Kt 2 (E) (B) B to R 6 ch is useless here, 
23 PtwoQ4(F) PtoQBS as it is on the next move, seeing 
24 Q to Q sq PtoK 6 that the Bishop cannot perma- 
25 QteQ2(G P to K 6 nently occupy that position. 
26 Ktt. Pech (H) Pt. Kt A k ; s 
27 Pt.P R to K B sq (C) Taking Bishop with Knight 
28 Qto K B2 QtoQ3 would have the effect of strengthen- 
29 QtoR4 Q RB to K sq ing White’s centre. 
30 RtoBSs RtoK 5 (D) Either this or the retreat of 

Jriginal from 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

VIZAYANAGARAM 

the Bishop is necessary, as Black 
now threatens P to K Kt 4. 

(E) Black, although second 
player, has thus early the better 
game. It should be noted, how- 
ever, in justice to Mr. Minchin, 
that his attention to the business 
details of this Tourney seriously 
affected his play throughout its 
progress. 

(F) Played with sound judg- 
ment, The purpose of this move is to 
get rid of Black’s King’s Pawn, and 

TOURNAMENT. 371 

then to play P to K B4, supporting 
the weak Pawn at Knight's fifth. 

(G) In order to exchange Queens, 
should Black attempt to post his 
Queen at King’s Bishop's fifth. 

(H) Compulsory, after Black’s 
well-timed advance of the King’s 
Pawn. 

(1) The boldest and at the same 
time the safest course. 

(J) Providence is on the side of 
the big battalions here as in greater 
affairs. 

THE END, 

Printed by Jas. Wade, 18, Tavistock-street, Covent-garded, 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Original from 

Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

oS Original from 
Digitized by Google PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Digitized by Google 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Original from 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY