Hello everyone. Uh, this next game I'm about to show you is probably one of Garrick Espasparo's most famous games. Uh, it was played in 1999 in Viking Netherlands. And although probably every channel on YouTube already covered this game, there is quite a story to this game. And uh, I will try to present it as such. So, Garrick Kasparov is white and he's playing against vessel in Topool. So, uh, Kasparov plays E4 and already we have quite a surprise in the first move. Topalov plays uh D6, the purse defense. And uh this was uh quite quite a surprise to Kasparov because uh well this isn't something Topalo usually plays uh but he played it to avoid any opening preparations by Kasparov. So this is uh neither player really used this in tournament play and it's not really an opening one would use in such a high high tournament. So Kasparo plays D4. We have knight F6 by Topalov. Knight to C3. G6. Bishop to E3. We have uh bishop to G7. Queen to D2. We have C6. F3. B5. Knight G to E2. Knight B to D7. And now Kasparov plays bishop to H6. Uh and uh here Topal captures. Bishop captures on H6. And queen captures on H6. And this is okay for Kasparov as it will stop Topalo from ever castling king side. Uh but Talo doesn't mind. He was considering a queenside castle anyway. So we have bishop to B7. We have A3 by Kasparov. Kasparov Kasparov decides not to castle just yet. Uh well he considers A3 is a better move here. So we have E5 by Topalov. Uh and now Kasparov castles. We have queen to E7 and king B1. Just getting his king to a safer square. So we have A6 by Topalov. This a6 move kind of prevents white from playing d5 and weakening this b5 pawn. So topo plays a6 preparing to castle himself and Kasparov plays knight c5 knight c1 uh because well Kasparo really wants to get this knight to a5 as this a6 move kind of really really makes a nice square for the knight on a5. So Tapalo castles queen side. We have knight to B3. And now Topalo plays E captures on D4. We have rook captures on D4. And now C5. And Kasparo plays rook to D1. So we have knight to B6 preparing that D5. If black ever plays D5, Topalov will be very happy about this. And uh it took Aspar of some I think 12 minutes to figure out his next move. and he decided to play G3. And uh what this G3 move does uh Kasparo wants to get this knight to A5. He wants to put this bishop on H3 on this strong diagonal. And he wants to play queen to F4. And with this idea, all of white's pieces will be pointing to the direction of the black king. So Topal plays king to B8. And here we have knight to A5. We have bishop to A8. So uh the bishop can't be captured by the knight. And now Kasparov plays bishop to H3 continuing with his plan. And uh here Topalov does push D5. So we have queen to a queen to F4 check by Kasparov. And uh here uh Topalov plays king to A7. And uh now Kasparov plays rook H to E1. And now all of Kasparov's pieces are in ideal places. And uh here Kasparo was already actually calculating a very nice idea and uh Topalo allows it. He plays D4 and he played D4 feeling quite satisfied. So this is Kasparov's idea. Kasparov plays uh knight to D5 attacking the queen and uh going for that exchange of knights to remove one more defender from the king. So we have knight captures on D5. E captures on D5 and this opens up an attack on the queen. And now here Topal plays queen to D6 uh offering to exchange queens. And uh this is actually the position Kasparo was hoping for. Uh he said that well uh this could easily be a a draw. Uh but uh he says that uh in his mind he was thinking of the game between uh Edward Lasker and Sir Thomas. Uh you know the one with the nice king walk. I have it covered on my channel if you haven't seen it. So, here Kaspasparo actually plays rook captures on D4. And as soon as Kasparov played this rook captures on D4, he got out of he got off the table and started walking around and he was calculating all sorts of lines in his head and uh he says that it suddenly shocked him. What if what if Topal plays king to B6? King to B6 would probably ruin every idea Kasparov had. Uh but this is why Kasparov says that Kaisa was kind to him that day. He was playing playing a game against the vessel in Topal who isn't interested in playing a move like king to B6. Also a great attacker himself and well playing king B6 would well be something like admitting that he missed rook captures on D4. So here Topalo captures here Topal captures the rook on D4. And uh this is the point of this entire combination. Kasparo plays rook to E7. And uh one more thing I want you to know that this entire idea of rook rook captures on D4 is possible uh only because this uh rook is on H8. If this rook was on any any other square but H8, then this would not be possible. But you'll see what I mean by this later. So, Kasparov plays a rook to E7 check. And uh well, although this wasn't a surprise to Topalo, it's it's a very nice idea. Let's see what happens if Talo captures the second rook. If queen captures on E7, you would get queen captures on D4 with check. Uh king to B8. Uh queen to B6 with check. Uh you have to block this bishop to B7. And now knight to C6 check. And this is forking the king and queen. But that doesn't really matter. As you can see, this bishop here is protecting C8. So, the king has to go to A8. And this would be queen to A7 checkmate. So, after this rook to E7 check, Tapalo instantly played uh king to B6. And uh here, Kasparov plays queen captures on D4 with check. And this is what he meant when he was thinking about the game between Edward Leer and Sir Thomas. Uh he's taking the king for a nice walk. So, Topalo plays king captures on A5. Here we have B4 by Kasparov. Uh, and we have king to A4 by Topalov. And Kasparov plays queen C3. And this is a this is a deadly move as it's threatening queen to B3 checkmate. So this has to be defended somehow. And Talov plays queen captures on D5 protecting the B3 square with his queen. Uh, and here Kasparov plays rook to A7. Also a very nice move now threatening rook captures on A6 with checkmate. And uh it's really not a simple task to stop this. Uh I mean you could try a lot of things. Uh the queen can't move from here to protect it with the queen because then queen B3 checkmate is available again. If you try something like rook to D6 to prevent checkmate this way, well this leads actually to a very beautiful idea. Uh that is king to B2. And now uh queen to B3 check is unstoppable followed by C captures on B3 with checkmate. So only move would be something like queen to D4 and here Kasparo would simply capture the queen and Topalo cannot capture back because rook captures on A6 is checkmate again. So after this rook A7 idea Topal finds a bishop to B7 protecting the pawn this way. So Kasparov captures it. Rook rook captures on B7 and Topalo plays queen to C4. Uh so this allows Kasparov to capture this knight on F6 and here Kasparov is also threatening queen captures on A6 with checkmate. So Topalo has to capture this pawn on A3 uh going even deeper with the king. So we have queen captures on A6 with check and we have king captures on B4. And uh this is the position Topalov says that he saw uh when Kasparov sacrificed the rook. But uh Topalov uh missed this C3 move. If Topal had seen this C3 C3 move, he probably would have played king B6 and went for a draw. Uh but he missed this. Uh so what happens if the queen captures? If the queen captures on C3, well, it's simply queen captures on B5 with check. King A3 and rook to A7. This is deadly because queen to A5 and rook captures on F A5 is checkmate. So on C3 uh Topal has to capture with the king. King captures on C3. And now we have this very nice queen to A1 check by Kasparov. And now the king cannot go to D3 because of bishop to F1 check picking up the queen. So Topalov plays king to D2. And now we have queen to B2 check. And Topalo plays king to D1. And it seems that uh the attack is over for Kasparov. But uh now you see uh this bishop on H3 as it usually is is well he didn't really do that much in the game. But his presence was well known in every line Kasparov used in the attack. Uh and now as usual with great attackers this light square bishop comes into the attack just in the right moment. So bishop to F1 and this is deadly. Uh the queen is attacked and the queen has nowhere to go. If the queen ever moves from this diagonal, then queen to E2 checkmate is coming. So let's see what happens if queen captures the bishop. If queen captures on F1, we have queen to C2 check, king to E1 and rook to E7 check. And the king has no squares to go. The queen has to block. And this is checkmate. So on bishop F1, Topal tries one more counter blow. And it it seems as he found a way out of this. He plays rook to D2 now attacking uh Kasparov's queen. Uh but Kasparov again continues the attack in great style and plays rook to D7. Uh sacrificing this rook finally and pinning this rook so the queen can be captured. So uh Topalov captures the rook and here Topalov parts with his queen and we have a bishop to C4 and uh this is uh what you remember when I told you that the the entire idea of rook captures on D4 the rook sacrifice was possible because this rook was on H8 and now you will see why Kasparov captures the queen with bishop captures on C4 and he's threatening uh queen to E2 checkmate and if black would try to stop this for example with playing rook to E8 to defend the E2 square then Kasparo would have this very nice uh queen to C1 checkmate. So the only move for Talo here is to capture the bishop. So B captures on C4 and now Kasparov finally picks up this rook on H8. So queen captures on H8. So a very nice point to this line. Uh we have rook to D3. Uh Topalo will continue this game and try to fight it out. Uh but Kasparov finishes it very nicely. We have queen to A8. C3. Now queen to A4 check. We have king to E1. And now F4 not allowing Topalov any counterplay. We have uh F5. And now Kasparov plays king to C1 denying any hope this C pawn might have of becoming a queen. Uh we have rook to D2 going for that H2 pawn. And here Kasparo plays queen to queen to A7. And in this position, Topalo resigned. Uh the the white queen will gobble up all of these pawns and the rook cannot capture this pawn on H2 because of queen to G1 check picking up the rook. So in this position, Garrett, I mean Vesseline Topalov resigned. And yeah, it's a it's a very interesting game uh as Talov played that Pierce defense just to surprise Kasparov. So both players were on unknown terms and like Kasparov says it's good that Kaisa was kind to him that day because uh Topal could have easily gone for a draw if he refused the rook sacrifice but uh luckily he was playing none other than Vessel and Topalo that day and so this beautiful game was accomplished. Uh although Tapalo did help to create it. So yeah, uh this is the game and uh the reason I decided to show one more game by Kasparov is that August is almost here and uh well one more chance to see the beast of Baku uh return to chess and play some great games in St. Louis. So yeah, that's it. As usual, you can check two of my previous videos here. And I would also like to thank people who continue to contribute to my channel. Uh thank you Phil Calville and thank you thank you William Sheffermire. Uh you guys are great and uh really thanks for all your support and uh yeah that's it. Uh thank you for watching and I will see you soon. Oh.
