THE 

MODERN CHESS INSTRUCTOR 

W. STEINITZ 

PART I. 

< ONTAINING ELEMENTARY EXPLANATIONS FOR BEGINNERS — THE DESCRIPTION OF NOTATIONS — A 

TELEGRAPHIC CHESS CODE — AN ESSAY ON THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GAME AND ANALYSES 

OF SIX POPULAR OPENINGS, WITH ILLUSTRATIVE GAMES TO EACH OPENING, ETC. 

ETC., ETC. THE APPENDIX CONTAINS THE GAMES OF THE CONTEST 

BETWEEN MESSRS. STEINITZ AND TSCHIGORIN PLAYED AT 

HAVANA IN JANUARY AND FEBRUARY, I 889 

WITH ANNOTATIONS BY THE AUTHOR 

G P. PUTNAM'S SONS 

NEW YORK LONDON 

>7 & 29 WEST 23D STREET 27 KING WILLIAM ST., STRAND 

l889 

COPYRIGHT BY 

W. STEINITZ 

1889 

[ALL RIGHTS RESERVED] 
Entered at Stationers' Hall, London 

BY W. STEINITZ 

TO THE GENEROUS PATRON OF CHKSS AND CIIKSS MASTERS 

THE HONORABLE R. STEEL, OF CALCUTTA, 

MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 

OF HIS EXCELLENCY THE VICEROY OF INDIA 

THE. WHOLE WORK ON CHESS OF WHICH THE PRESENT 

IS THE FIRST VOLUME 

IS DEDICATED 

WITH THE MOST SINCERE SENTIMENTS OF THE HIGHEST 
ESTEEM AND WARMEST FRIENDSHIP BY 

THE AUTHOR. 

CONTENTS. 

Page 
DEDICATION AND PREFACE 

CHAPTER I. — Description of the Game. The Board and Men. Movements of Pieces and Mode 

of Capture lii 

CHAPTER II.— The Notation vii 

CHAPTER III. — The Laws of the Game xii 

CHAPTER IV.— Technical Terms xv 

CHAPTER V. — Chess as a Training of Mind and how to Improve xix 

CHAPTER VI. — The Modern School and its Tendency xxiii 

CHAPTER VII.— Relative Value of Pieces and Principles of Play xxv 

ANALYSIS OF OPENINGS.— 

The Ruy Lopez i 

Illustrative Games 20 

Double Ruy Lopez, Three and Four Knights' Game 41 

Illustrative Games 48 

The Scotch Gambit 57 

Illustrative Games 78 

The Two Knights' Defence 91 

Illustrative Games 108 

Petroff's Defence 1 16 

Illustrative Games 132 

Philidor's Defence 141 

Illustrative Games 1 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES.— 

Introduction ; • . . . . 162 

Games of the Contest 166 

OF 1 

PREFACE. 

The chief purport of the work on Chess, of which the present volume 
forms the first part, is the theoretical application of new principles and of the 
reasoning by analogies of positions which have been my guide in practice, es- 
pecially during the last twenty years. It is perhaps unnecessary to state 
that the task which I have set before me was beset with enormous difficulties. 
Many variations that have been the product of vast changes in the style of 
play which has taken place in modern times, have no doubt been duly no- 
ticed in able treatises on the game, but no attempt has yet been made in any 
book on Chess to base the analysis systematically on general ideas which 
would assist the judgment of the student in similar positions. In the present 
work great efforts are essayed in that direction, especially in the annotation 
of illustrative games from practical play where the results of the application 
of the principles recommended for the conduct of the openings and the middle 
part can be more distinctly traced in the end. But as will be seen from the 
few examples given in this volume, of reasoning out the opening moves 
by comparison of different maxims, it would have been practically impossible 
within the scope of this work to adopt the same sort of commentation 
throughout the analysis of the openings, and I had to confine myself in that 
respect to pointing out the most striking examples of the adaptation of prin- 
ciples in the early part of the game. However, I have carefully examined 
the debuts treated in this volume on the basis of such general maxims, and 
as the openings have been hitherto analysed by the authorities chiefly 
in an empirical manner, it became necessary to introduce a very large num- 
ber of novelties at various stages of variations which, up to the present, had 
been generally recognized as standard lines of play. In short I have come 
to conclusions differing very widely from those hitherto sanctioned by first- 
class practitioners and authors right at the roots of the openings, and sometimes 
as early as on the third or fourth moves, like in the Ruy Lopez, the PetrofFs 
Defence, and the Philidor Defence. The analysis of the openings had there- 
fore to be entirely remodelled in many instances in which new ideas are de- 
veloped that have never been put to any practical test. Most of the experi- 
mental deductions which I introduce to students of the game, must therefore 
be regarded only as imaginary examples of tactics and strategy which I trust 
will in the main afford good instruction to the reader, but cannot lay any claim 
to absolute accuracy. For it ought to be remembered that the merits of most 
of the recognized standard variations in the openings could not be settled un- 

vill PREFACE. 

til they had been verified by numerous illustrations from the practice of first- 
class masters in actual play, and that grave errors have often been found in 
various forms of openings that have been greatly favored by many prominent 
practitioners and authorities for a very long time. Under those circumstances I 
must expect that occasionally some shortcomings of demonstrations, such as 
quicker ways of winning or drawing, and perhaps some faults of judgment 
may have crept into some of the numerous original lines of play, which after 
conscientious examination, to the best of my ability, I have thought it my 
duty to introduce into this treatise. But I trust that such flaws will 
be found in a minority by far and that at any rate the innovations which I 
propose will give material for practical trials and theoretical researches that 
will be useful for the development of our scientific pastime. 

For the game department I have chiefly selected striking examples of bril- 
liant combinations in the conduct of the King's side attack, for, as a matter of 
course, their study is quite indispensable to the learner. As only very few of 
the innovations which I propose have "been tested in actual play, it is only 
natural that I could not give many practical illustrations of the application 
of modern principles. But just because the examples quoted from old masters 
do not generally conform with the maxims of development and the precau- 
tions of modern play which are laid down in this treatise, they afford earlier 
and more brilliant opportunities for the display of ingenuity in the direct 
King's side attack, and as the amendments on the basis of more modern ideas 
are pointed out in the notes as much as possible within the scope of this 
volume, I feel satisfied that the study of the game department will at least 
afford as much instruction to the large majority of readers as the perusal of 
the analysis. As far as practicable, I have endeavored to supplement in the 
examples from actual play any important variations that had been omitted in 
the main analysis. 

As regards the arrangement of the matter presented in this volume I 
have introduced several new improvements with the view of giving greater 
facilities for following the analysis and studying the illustrative games. The 
most notable novelties in that respect are the repetition of the numbers of 
moves in each column and the addition of diagrams in the analytical pages 
which I trust will have the desired effect. 

The various authorities quoted in this treatise have been of great assist- 
ance to me in forming the outlines of this treatise, and I am also much 
indebted to them for some parts of my analysis and annotations, as well as 
for the greater portion of the selected games. But as I did not wish to intro- 
duce any kind of controversy I have deemed it advisable to quote them 
only when I quite agreed with their demonstrations, and in very rare cases 
when I accepted the latter but differed from their conclusions without adding 
any analytical proof. It is, however, only due in this preface to acknowledge 
my general obligations to those authorities and to bring them fully to the 
notice of amateurs who wish to form Chess libraries. They are principally 
Bilguers Handbuch des ScJiacJispiels ; edited by Baron von Heydebrand und 
der Lasa (Leipzig, Veit & Co.) ; Teoria e Practica, by Signer Salvioli 
(Venice, O. Ferrari) ; Fiihrer durch die Schachtheorie, by Oscar Cordel 

1'KF.FACK. IX 

(Berlin, Julius Springer) ; Lehrbuch dcs SchacJispiels, by J. Dufresne (Leipzig, 
Ph. Rcclam jun.); Tlie CJiess Player s Manual, by G. H. D. Gossip American 
llditioti, by S. Lipschiitz (London and New York, Routledge & Co.); 
Stauntons Handbook, ( Bohns Library, London); Cook's Synopsis, ( W. W. 
Morgan, London); The American Edition of same, by J. W. Miller ( Robert 
Clarke & Co., Cincinnati); The London International Tournament of 1883, by 
J. I. Minchin (London, Jas. Wade) ; The London Chess Congress of 1862, 
by J. Lowenthal (London, Henry G. Bohn); The Chess Openings, by Howard 
Staunton and R. B. Wormald (London, Virtue & Co.) ; Morphys Games, 
by J. Lowenthal (London, Henry G. Bohn), and various other works on 
the game. 

My special thanks are also due to my friend Professor Waller Holladay 
for his kind assistance in the revision of the MS., and the correction of proofs 
of this volume, which I now beg to submit to all Chess students in the hope 
that in the main it will give general satisfaction. 

NEW YORK, May, 1889. 

CHAPTER I. 

DESCRIPTION OF THE GAME. THE BOARD AND MEN. MOVEMENTS 

CAPTURE. 

i 

OFPrcr 

AND MODE OF 

The game of Chess is a mental contest between two players who endeavor to. im- 
prison and attack the hostile King in a position from which he cannot be released. This 
is called '•' checkmate" £see Chapter IV, Technical Terms). The game is played on a 
board of sixty-four squares, which are colored alternately white and black. The men 
are thirty-two in number, one player having sixteen white and his opponent sixteen 
black men. 

Diagram No. i. 
Each player's men consists of eight PIECES and eight PAWNS, thus named and figured : 

WHITE. BLACK. 

Two Rooks or Castles 
Two Bishops 
Two Knights 
Eight Pawns 

WHITE. 

Queen 

BLACK. 
^ 

I 

JL 
* 
i 

The following Diagram represents the men arranged in proper order on the board' 
at the commencement of a game : 

Diagram No. 2. 

BLACK. 

dl 4...lli i Ji Imtt 

'/////A W//////S. W/////A W//////,. 

WHITE. 

XII 

MOVEMENTS OF PIECES AND MODE OF CAPTURE. 

As shown above, the board must be so placed that each player must have a white 
square at his right hand corner of the board. 

The players draw by lot for move and choice of color. In all international and 
public Chess matches and tournaments, however, it is the rule for the first player to have 
the white men. 

The White Queen must always occupy a white square, and the Black Queen a 
black one on commencing a game. Scrvat Regina colorem. But the White King 
must always occupy a black square and the Black King a white one, the Kings and 
Queens each facing one another. The Bishops on each side occupy the squares nearest 
to the Kings and Queens ; then come the Knights, and the Rooks are posted in the 
corner squares. 

THE KING. 

The King, the most important of the pieces, moves only one square at a time — back- 
wards, forwards, diagonally and laterally, or he may capture a hostile man in the same 
way; which means that he may take off any hostile piece or -Pawn that stands on any 
square immediately adjoining his own, and then occupy the vacated square. Once in 
the game he has the privilege of moving two squares, i. e., when he performs the opera- 
tion of Castling, which is explained under "Technical Terms/' He cannot, however, 
move on to a square next the one occupied by the hostile King, as the opposing mon- 
archs must always be separated from each other by a square. Nor can the King be 
moved into check, i.e., on to any square commanded by a hostile man. He can, how- 
ever capture any unguarded piece or pawn of the enemy on any square next his own in 
any direction. When the King is so situated that he cannot avoid capture he is "check- 
mated,'' and the game is lost. 

The following Diagram illustrates the move of the King: 

Diagram No. 3. 

THE QUEEN 

Is by fanthe most powerful of the pieces, moving or capturing in any direction on 
.an unobstructed irange — backwards, forwards, laterally or diagonally, and capturing in 

MOVEMENTS OF PIECES AND MODE OF CAPTURE. 

Xlll 

the same way. When she occupies any one of the four centre squares, she commands no 
less than twenty-seven out of the sixty-four squares of the board. 
Diagram illustrating move of the Queen: 

Diagram No. 4. 

THE ROOK 

Is next in importance to the Queen. He moves or captures in straight lines along 
the ranks and files to the extent of the board on an unobstructed range — backwards, for- 
wards and laterally, but not diagonally. He has also the privilege, in conjunction with 
the King, of Castling once during the game. 

Diagram illustrating the move of the Rook: 

Diagram No. 5» 

m mm 

* ms * 

In the foregoing diagram the Black Rook on Queen's fifth square (see Chapter II., 
on Notation) commands fourteen different squares on a clear range. 

XIV 

MOVEMENTS OF PIECES AND MODE OF CAPTURE. 

THE BISHOP 

Only moves and captures diagonally on squares of his own color; i. e., the Black 
King's Bishop can never move on to a white square, nor the White King's Bishop on to 
a black one. On a clear diagonal the Bishop can be moved from one corner square to 
the opposite corner. Diagram illustrating the move of the Bishop: 

Diagram No. 6. 

In the above diagram, the Black Bishop, standing on his Queen's fifth square, com- 
mands 13 squares on unobstructed diagonals, viz. : on his Queen's Bishop's sixth, 
Queen's Knight's seventh, Queen's Rook's eighth, King's fourth, King's Bishop's third, 
King's Knight's second, King's Rook's square, Queen's Bishop's fourth, Queen's 
Knight's third, Queen's Rook's second, King's sixth, King's Bishop's seventh, and 
King's Knight's eighth squares. 

THE KN?IGHT. 

The Knight's move is a peculiar one, as he alone of the pieces has the privilege of 
leaping over other pieces and pawns, whether of his own or hostile forces. He moves 
or captures from the square where he stands to any third square of an opposite color to the 
one from which he started, by skipping one diagonal square and then landing on the 
next square of the same line or row, or vice versa. The subjoined Diagram illustrates: 

Diagram No. 7. 

\vu 
THE NOTATION. x 

Here, the Black Knight, occupying his King's fifth square (Ks), commands no less 
than eight squares, viz. : King's Bishop's third, King's Knight's fourth, King's Knight's 
sixth, King's Bishop's seventh, Queen's seventh, Queen's Bishop's sixth, Queen's Bishop's 
fourth, and Queen's third. If any hostile piece or Pawn were posted on any of these 
squares he could capture it and himself occupy the vacated square, and he could leap 
over pieces or Pawns of either color standing between in order to do this. 

THE PAWN 

Can only move forward one square at a time, except at his first move, when he has 
the choice of advancing one or two squares, but in the latter case he is sometimes liable 
to be captured "en passant" or in passing (see Technical Terms). He can never 
command more than two squares, and captures diagonally like a Bishop, but only on 
the two squares next his own. He, however, alone of all the chessmen has the privi- 
lege of promotion, i. e., on reaching an eighth square he may be exchanged either for 
a Queen or any other piece his player may select. The laws of the British Chess Associ- 
ation, which we adopt, provide that his player may refuse his promotion, in which case 
he remains a Pawn as before, but unmovable, and he is termed a " dummy" Pawn. We 
must, however, state that such a case can only very rarely occur in actual play, and 
that this law, though in our opinion theoretically sound, has little practical value for 
playing the game over the board, but may be of importance for the construction of 
problems. 

CHAPTER II. 
THE NOTATION. 

Each square of the Chessboard has a separate and distinctive designation. Accord- 
ing to the English, French, Italian and Spanish system cf notation, the different squares 
are called after the pieces. Thus, the square on which the King stands at the commence- 
ment of a game, is styled the King's square ; that occupied by the Queen, the Queen's 
square, and so on — King's Bishop's square, King's Knight's square, King's Rook's 
square ; Queen's Bishop's square, Queen's Knight's square, and Queen's Rook's square ; 
the pieces on the King's side being termed the King's pieces, and those on the Queen's 
side the Queen's. The Pawns are named after the pieces to which to which they belong, 
thus : the Pawn in front of the King is called the King's Pawn ; that in front of the 
Queen, the Queen's Pawn ; that in front of the King's Knight, the King's Knight's 
Pawn, and so on. The square immediately in front of the King is called the King's 
second square ; the next in front of that, the King's third square ; the next to that, the 
King's fourth square, and so on ; so that, on the same file, we have King's second, third, 
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth squares. Similarly, the square in front of that 
on which the Queen stands at the commencement of the game, is termed the Queen's 
second square, and so on to the eighth or last square of the file. In the same way, we 
have King's Bishop's second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth squares, and 
so on, for all the other pieces. 

In recording a game, the pieces and Pawns are designated in print, or in writing, as 
follows : K for King, Q for Queen, KB for King's Bishop, KKt for King's Knight, KR 
for King's Rook, QB for Queen's Bishop, QKt for Queen's Knight, QR for Queen's 

xlvl THE NOTATION. 

Rook, P for Pawn, KP for King's Pawn, QP for Queen's Pawn, KBP for King's Bishop's 
Pawn, KKtP for King's Knight's Pawn, KRP for King's Rook's Pawn, QBP for Queen's 
Bishop's Pawn, QKtP for Queen's Knight's Pawn, QRP for Queen's Rook's Pawn. 

The other abbreviations used in notation are : sq. for square, ch. for check, X for 
takes, (dis. ch. ) for discovered check, (dble. ch.) for double check, e. p. for en pa ssant 
or in passing, -J- for better game, — at the end for inferior game. 

It must be remembered that in the English, French, Italian, and Spanish notations, 
each player counts or reckons the squares from his own side of the board ; e. g., 
the WThite Queen's second square is the Black Queen's seventh square ; the White 
King's square is Black King's eighth square ; White King's Bishop's square is Black 
King's Bishop's eighth ; and so on, i. e., each square of the Chessboard has two differ- 
ent denominations, as shown by the subjoined Diagram : 

Diagram No. 8. 

The German algebraic system of notation, however, is quite different and presents 
many advantages over the one noticed above. The eight squares of each row, com- 
mencing from the left-hand corner of the board, are designated by letters, from the 
letter "a" up to the letter "h," as illustrated by the Diagram on the next page. 

Commencing from the same corner, the eight squares of each file are also num- 
bered upward from i to 8, and by a combination of the corresponding letter and figure, 
each square is differently though quite distinctly marked. In describing a move, the 
square from which a piece starts, as well as that on which he lands, either in the ordi- 
nary way or by capture, is clearly indicated. Thus, White's Queen Rook's square would 
be marked by the letter and .figure ai; White's Queen Rook's second square, a2; White's 
Queen Rook's seventh square, ay; White's Queen Rook's eighth square, a8; White's 
King's fourth square, e4; Black's King's fourth square, €5, etc. The move of Pawn to 

THE NOTATION. 

xvu 

King's fourth for White would have to be described thus: e2 — e4 ; And for the same 
move on Black's part the description would be ey — €5. Compare Diagram No. 9. 

Diagram No. 9. 

BLACK. 

c d e f 

I 8 

7 
6 

5 
4 
3 

2 

I 

abcde fgh 

WHITE. 

The great advantage of the German method consists in its conciseness, and in the 
lesser probability of a mistake occurring in writing down a move in a game by corre- 
spondence, or even in an ordinary game which has to be adjourned ; whereas, compara- 
tively more mistakes occur when other notations are used. 

The fractional notation adopted in the present treatise possesses many advantages: 

P— K4 

P— K4 

KKt— B3 
KKt-B3 
P_Q±_ 
"KtxP 

0-0-0 

The foregoing first three moves in Petroff's Defence illustrate the superiority of this 
system of notation over the old, time-honored method of recording the foregoing moves 
as follows : 

1 P to K fourth or 4th 

2 KKt to B third or 3rd 

3 P to Q fourth or 4th 

1 P to K fourth or 4th 

2 KKt to B third or 3rd 

3 Kt takes P, etc. 

By the present system White's moves are recorded above and Black's below the 
line. 

The sub-variations are inserted as follows, in the form of notes, \v hich are referred 
to by numerals, as at Black's third move above, it being understood that in the subjoined 
example it is Black's turn to play : 

1. K3....PXP; 4 P-KS, 4 Kt-Ks ; 5 KtXP, 5 P-Q.4, etc., 

xviii THE NOTATION. 

a comma separating White's and Black's moves and a semi-colon being placed after 
each move of Black. If such sub-variation begins with a move of Black it is intro- 
duced as above with a leader, thus: .... The letter D marks a diagrammed positon. 

In the January and February, 1889, numbers of The International Chess 
Magazine, Mr. Edwyn Anthony of Hereford, England, discusses the subject of Chess 
Notation in an interesting manner. He comes to the conclusion " That two systems, 
one arbitrary and the other significant, are alone in use at the present time, despite 
numerous attempts to overthrow them ; and that effort should be directed to considering 
what improvements can be grafted on these present stems. " 

In pursuance of this plan, he proposes two modifications, one arbitrary and one 
significant, of the English method of notation, by which every move would be repre- 
sented by three symbols only. His plan is ingenious and well worthy of consideration ; 
but the difficulties in the way of the introduction of a new notation are serious. To 
obtain sufficient familiarity with it for ready use, a little time, study and practise would 
be required on the part of both writers and players ; and there is a certain mental inertia 
to be overcome, which we fear it will be found difficult to do. But the convenience and 
economy of such a notation are fully demonstrable. 

THE FORSYTH NOTATION. 

This notation is the invention of Mr. David Forsyth, a Scottish amateur. It is fully 
described in the Chess Players' Annual, by Mr. and Mrs. T. B. Rowland, edition of 
1889. It is undoubtedly the best method of recording a position, except the diagram. 

The board is supposed to be placed before the player as is usual in diagrams, with 
the side of the white pieces next to him. It is then read as one would read the lines on 
a page, the rows of squares being regarded as the lines, beginning with Black's Queen's 
Rook's Square. 

Thus the position in Game No. 3, of the Ruy Lopez opening, a diagram of which 
is given on p. 50, would be recorded as follows : — Beginning with the top row and 
counting from left to right, the first five squares, namely Black's QR, QKt, QB, Q, and 
K's squares are vacant. This fact would be recorded simply by writing the number 5. 
The next square is occupied by the Black King, and this would be recorded by a small 
k, small italics being used for the Black pieces and pawns, while Roman capitals are 
used for those of White. The remaining two squares of this row are vacant, which would 
be recorded by writing the figure 2. The entire upper row would therefore be recorded 
by three symbols, thus : — 5 k 2. In like manner the next row would be recorded thus : — 

2 p 2 r p p ; the records of the other rows would be as follows : — Third, 2 p 5 ; Fourth, 
/ 5 r P ; Fifth, 4/^2; Sixth, i P B b 3 R ; Seventh, P 2 P i P P i ; Eighth, R 3 K 
3. If these be written together, the records of eacrwow-.beirig marked off by semi-colons, we 
have the following complete record of the position : — Move 26. . . .R — KKt4 ; Steinitz 
5^2;2/2r//;2/5;/5rP;4//2; iPB^3R;P2PiPPi;R3K 

3 ; Max Judd. 

This may be abbreviated by adding together the numbers at the end of each row and 
the beginning of the next, and ignoring altogether the divisions into rows, thus ; — Move 
26. ... R— KKt4 ; Steinitz ; 5/£4/2r//2/5/5rP4//3PB^3 RP 2 P i 
P P i R 3 K 3 ; Max Judd. 

In like manner the following problem would be recorded thus (the letter S being 
used for Knight, to avoid the confusion which is liable to arise between K and Kt): — 

THE NOTATION. 

XIX 

Not abbreviated; 8;5/2;Py;KSi^jQ2; 8; 6Si; 8; 8; mate in two. 
Abbreviated ; i3/2P7KSi£jQi6S 17. — 2 moves. 

A test by which errors would often be detected is that if each letter representing a 
piece or pawn be counted as one, the sum total of every recorded position must be 64, 
the number of squares on the board. 

GRINGMUTH'S TELEGRAPHIC CODE. 

This code is the invention of Mr. D. Gringmuth, a leading Russian problem com- 
poser, and has been adopted in several matches. An account of it may be found in 
La Strategic, the Times- Democrat of New Orleans, The International Chess 
Magazine ', and the Chess Players' Annual. By means of it two different moves 
can be combined into one word for transmission. If telegraphing only one game the 
first two syllables would represent White's move, and the last two syllables Black's 
answer. In the match between London and St. Petersburg, in which two games were 
simultaneously contested, the two first syllables represented the move in the game 
in which the party sending the dispatch had the first move, and the two last 
syllables the move of the same party in the game in which their adversaries had the 
first move. The squares are designated as in the following diagram, and each move 
is designated by giving the square from which the piece or pawn is moved, followed by 
the square to which it is moved. By an extension of the code suggested by E. D. Nores 
in the Times-Democrat, the letter c, added to the last syllable, designates " check ;" 
the letter t added to the last syllable means " takes f similarly p means "takes pawn 
en passant ;" 1 added to the symbols for the King's and Rook's squares, means Castles ; 
q, r, b, k, added to the last syllable indicate that a pawn reaching the last row becomes 
respectively a queen, rook, bishop, or knight ; and finally m means mate, and s, stale- 
mate. 

BLACK. 

m 

w 

a 
e 

ma 

na 

pa 

ra 

sa 

ta 

wa 

za 

me 

ne 

pe 

re 

se 

te 

we 

ze 

i 
o 

0 

e 
a 

mi 

ni 

PI 

n 

si 

ti 

Wl 

wo 

Zl 

mo 

no 

po 

ro 

so 

to 

zo 

bo 

CO 

do 

fo 

go 

ho 

ko 

lo 

bi 

ci 

di 

n 

gi 

hi 

ki 

li 

be 

ce 

de 

fe 

ge 

he 

ke 

le 

ba 

ca 

da 

fa 

ga 

ha 

ka 

la 

b c d f g h k 1 

WHITE. 

Thus Game No. 2, in Philidor's Defence, p. 154, would be recorded as follows for 
telegraphing: — Gegoseso Kahireri Fefoteto Fosottogo Hiworiro Sosiwazi Cadipepi 
Wogorogo Fazowewi Zosozawa Daworari Bafarisi Hadonare Dosi. 

XX THE LAWS OF THE GAME. 

CHAPTER III. 
THE LAWS OF THE GAME. 

We approve in the main of the Code of Laws of the British Chess Association, 
which has been adopted in many Chess Congresses. 

THE CHESSBOARD. 

I. — The board must be so placed during play that each combatant has a white 
square on his right-hand corner. If, during the progress of a game, either player dis- 
covers that the board has been improperly placed, he may insist on its being adjusted. 

THE CHESSMEN. 

II. — If, at any time in the course of a game, it is found that the men were not 
properly placed, or that one or more of them were omitted at the beginning, the game 
in question must be annulled. If, at any time, it is discovered that a man has been 
dropped off the board, and moves have been made during its absence, such moves shall 
be retracted and the man restored. If the players cannot agree as to the square on 
which it should be replaced, the game must be annulled. 

THE RIGHT OF MOVE AND CHOICE OF COLOR. 

III. — The right of making the first move and (if either player requires it) of choosing 
the color, which shall be retained throughout the sitting, must be decided by lot. In 
any series of games between the same players at one sitting, each shall have the first 
move alternately in all games, whether won or drawn. In an annulled game, the player 
who had the first move in that game, shall move first in the next. 

COMMENCING OUT OF TURN. 

IV. — If a player makes the first move in a game when it is not his turn to do so, 
the game must be annulled, if the error has been noticed before both players have com- 
pleted the fourth move. After four moves on each side have been made, the game must 
be played out as it stands. 

PLAYING TWO MOVES IN SUCCESSION. 

V. — If, in the course of a game, a player moves a man when it is not his turn to 
play, he must retract the said move ; and after his adversary has moved, must play the 
man wrongly moved, if it can be played legally. 

TOUCH AND MOVE. 

VI. — A player must never touch any of the men except when it is his turn to play, 
or except when he touches a man for the purpose of adjusting it ; in which latter case, 
he must, before touching it, say, "I adjust/' or words to that effect. A player who 
touches with his hand (except accidentally) one of his own men when it is his turn to 
play, must move it, if it can be legally moved, unless, before touching it, he says, "I 
adjust," as above; and a player who touches one of his adversary's men, under the same 
conditions, must take it, if he can legally do so. If, in either case, the move cannot 
be legally made, the offender must move his King ; but, in the event of the King having 
no legal move, there shall be no penalty. If a player hold a man in his hand, undecided 
upon which square to play it, his adversary may require him to replace it, until he has 

THE LAWS OF THE GAME. xxi 

decided on its destination ; that man, however, must be moved. If a player, when it 
is his turn to play, touch with his hand (except accidentally or in Castling) more than one 
of his own men, he must play a*ny one of them legally movable that his opponent se- 
lects. If, under the same circumstances, he touches two or more of the adversary's 
men, he must capture whichever of them his antagonist chooses, provided it can be 
legally taken. If it happen that none of the men so touched can be moved or cap- 
tured, the offender must move his King ; but, if the King cannot be legally moved, 
there shall be no penalty. 

FALSE MOVES AND ILLEGAL MOVES. 

VII. — If a player makes a false move — that is, either by playing a man of his own 
to a square to which it cannot be legally moved, or by capturing an adverse man by a 
move which cannot be legally made — he must, at the choice of his opponent, and ac- 
cording to the case, either move his own man legally, capture the man legally, or move 
any other man legally movable. If, in the course of a game, an illegality be discovered 
(not involving a King being in check), and the move on which it was committed has 
been replied to, and not more than four moves on each side has been made subsequent- 
ly, all these latter moves, including that on which the illegality was committed, must be 
Detracted. If more than four moves on each side have been made, the game must be 

played out as it stands. 

* 

CHECK. 

VIII. — A player must audibly say "Check" when he makes a move which puts the 
hostile King in check. The mere announcement of check shall have no signification if 
check be not actually given, If check be given but not announced, and the adversary 
makes a move which obviates the check, the move must stand: If check be given and 
announced, and the adversary neglects to obviate it, he shall not have the option of cap- 
turing the checking piece or of covering, but must "move his King" out of check; 
but if the King has no legal move, there shall be no penalty. If in the course of a game 
it be discovered that a King has been left "in check " for one or more moves on either 
side, all the moves subsequent to that on which the check was given, must be retracted. 
Should these not be remembered, the game must be annulled. 

ENFORCING PENALTIES. 

• 

IX. — A player is not bound to enforce a penalty. This means that he does not 
subject himself in turn to a penalty by not claiming one due to him. This, however,! 
only applies to contests between two players, but in tournaments and team matches it is* 
often specially provided that in the interest of other competitors no player has a right 
knowingly to waive a penalty to which his opponent would be legitimately subjected. A 
penalty can only be enforced by a player before he has touched a man in reply. Should 
he touch a man in reply in consequence of a false or illegal move of his opponent, or a 
false cry of check, he shall not be compelled to move that man, and his right to enforce 
a penalty shall remain. When the King is moved as a penalty, it cannot Castle on that 
move. 

CASTLING. 

X. — In Castling, the player shall move King and Rook simultaneously, or shall 
touch the King first. If he touch the Rook first, he must not quit it before having 
touched the King, or his opponent may claim the move of the Rook as a complete 

xxii THE LAWS OF THE GAME. 

move. When the odds of either Rook or both Rooks are given, the player giving the 
odds shall be allowed to move his King as in Castling, and as though the Rooks were on 
the board. 

COUNTING FIFTY MOVES. 

XI. — A player may call upon his opponent to draw the game, or to mate him within 
fifty moves on each side, whenever his opponent persists in repeating a particular check, 
or a series of checks, or the same line of play (in some tournaments this rule has been 
altered to the effect that after six such repetitions of checks, series of moves, or the same 
line of play, a draw may be claimed on either side), or whenever he has a King alone on 

the board, or 

i 

King and Queen 

King and Rook 

j -D- u ~ against an equal or superior force 
King and Bishop ' 

King and Knight 

King and two Bishops 

King and two Knights I— against King and Queen 

King, Bishop and Knight | 

and in all analogous cases ; and whenever one player considers that his opponent can 
force the game, or that neither side can win it, he has the right of submitting the case to 
the umpire or bystanders, who shall decide whether it is one for the fifty-move counting. 
Should he not be mated within the fifty moves, he may claim that the game shall 
proceed. 

PAWN TAKING IN PASSING. 

XII. — Should a player be left with no other move than to take a Pawn in passing, 
he shall be bound to play that move. 

QUEENING A PAWN. 

XIII. — When a Pawn has reached the eighth square, the player has the option of 
selecting a piece, whether such piece has been previously lost or not, whose names and 
powers it shall then assume, or of deciding that it shall remain a Pawn. 

ABANDONING THE GAME. 

XIV. — If a player abandon the game, discontinue his moves, voluntarily resign, 
wilfully upset the board, or refuse to abide by these laws, or to submit to the decision of 
the umpire, he must be considered to have lost the game. 

THE UMPIRE OR BYSTANDERS. 

XV. — The umpire shall have the authority to decide any question whatever that 
may arise in the course of a game, but must never interfere except when appealed to. 
He must always apply the laws as herein expressed, and neither assume the power of 
modifying, nor of deviating from them in particular cases according to his own judg- 
ment. When a question is submitted to the umpire or bystanders by both players, their 
decision shall be final and binding upon both players. The term bystander shall com- 
prise any impartial player of eminence who can be appealed to, absent or present. 

TECHNICAL TERMS. xxiii 

CHAPTER IV. 
TECHNICAL TERMS. 

o—o 

i. CASTLING. — Each player has the privilege once in the game only, subject to cer- 
tain restrictions, of moving his King two squares in conjunction with placing on the 
square which the King has passed one of his Rooks. This operation — a compound 
move — is called "Castling." 

Position before Castling (Queen's side). 

Position before Castling (King's side\ 

Ii 

m H 9 MI 

«i pr 

Position after Castling (Queen's side.) 

Position after Castling (King's side). 

m mm. 

Castling can only be performed subject to the following restrictions : — I. The King 
must not be in check ; 2. He must not pass over or alight on a square commanded by 
a hostile man ; 3. Neither King nor Rook must have been previously moved ; 4. No 
piece must intervene between the King and Rook. 

In Italy the following method of Castling was, and, we believe, is still practiced : — 
The King and Rook can be either placed on any square within the limits of and includ- 
>ng their own two, provided they cross over each other, Thus, Castling may be effected 

XXIV 

TECHNICAL TERMS. 

in sixteen different ways, viz. : in six ways on the King's side, and in ten ways on the 
Queen's side. According to Staunton, Castling is only a modern innovation, In the 
Middle Ages, the King had the privilege of being played on his first move, under some- 
what similar restrictions, two squares in any direction, from the square on which he 
originally stood, whether the intervening square was vacant or occupied. 

2. QUEENING A PAWN. — A Pawn is " queened" when it has reached the last square 
of a file on which it is advancing, or when it captures a hostile piece on the eighth row. 
It may then be exchanged for a Queen or Rook or a Bishop or Knight. Thus a player 
may have two or more Queens, Rooks, Bishops or Knights on the board at the same 
time, or he may refuse promotion to his Pawn. The Committee of the London Inter- 
national Chess Congress, of 1862, decided that a player should have the option of re- 
fusal of promotion, as positions may occur in which promotion would involve the loss 
of the game ; whereas, by refusal of promotion a draw could be obtained. The follow- 
ing position illustrating a case of that kind is quoted from Lowenthal's Book of the 
London Chess Congress, of 1862: 

BLACK. 

i 

Here, it is White's move, and if he capture the Rook with the Pawn and claim a 
Queen or any other piece, Black takes the Bishop with the Pawn and checkmates him 
next move. But, if he refuse promotion, the game is drawn ; since if then Black 
capture the Bishop, White is stalemated, and if he move either Pawn or King, White 
takes the Knight's Pawn with the Bishop and draws, e. g. : i PXR (remaining a Pawn), 
i P— QKt4 ; 2 BXP (at Kty), etc. 

We approve of the decision of the Committee of the London Chess Congress, of 
1862, although the " dummy " Pawn rule was denounced by some authorities. In Italy 
the Pawn was formerly always retained at the eighth square as a temporary "dummy" 
Pawn until a piece was captured for which it could be exchanged. 

It sometimes happens that a player can win a game by claiming a minor piece or a 
Rook when he would lose by claiming a Queen. 

3. CHECK. — The King is in check when he is attacked by a hostile piece or Pawn, 
and as his capture is not permissible according to the laws of Chess, warning must be 
given by the opponent calling "Check." One of three things must then be done : i. 
The King must move out of check ; 2, The hostile man that checks him must be taken; 

TECHNICAL TERMS. xxv 

3. A piece or Pawn must be interposed between the King and the attacking hostile piece 
or Pawn. If none of these things can be done the game is lost, the King being check- 
mated. 

4. SIMPLE CHECK occurs when the King is directly attacked by a single piece or 
Pawn. 

5. DOUBLE CHECK is brought about when the King is attacked by two pieces at the 
same time owing to a discovered check. 

6. DISCOVERED CHECK occurs when, by the removal of a piece or Pawn, check is 
unmasked from another piece. 

7. PERPETUAL CHECK occurs when the attacked King cannot escape from one check 
without rendering himself liable to another. 

^^8. STALEMATE is brought about when the King, although not at the moment in 
check, is so situated that he cannot be moved without going into check and when no 
other piece or Pawn can be moved. The game then is drawn. 

9. SMOTHERED MATE, or Philidor's legacy, occurs when the King is so hemmed in 
by his own men that he cannot move out of check from a hostile Knight, which is the 
only piece that can adminster this mate. 

10. EN PRISE. — A French term, signifying "exposed to capture." When any un- 
defended piece or Pawn is attacked by a hostile man, it is said to be en prise, i. e. : 
liable to be taken. 

11. J'ADOUBE. — Two other French words, meaning "I adjust" (see Law VI), to be 
used by a player when he touches a man to adjust its position on the board, without in- 
tending to move it, if it be one of his own men, or to capture it, if it be one of his op- 
ponent's men. 

12. FORCED MOVE. — When a player has only one move at his disposal it is called a 
forced move. 

13. FALSE MOVE. — Any illegal move, such as Castling when the King is in check or 
has been already moved, or moving a Bishop like a Knight, or a Knight like a 
Bishop or Rook, is called a false move. 

14. MINOR PIECES. — The Knights and Bishops are termed minor pieces to distin- 
guish them from the Queen and Rooks. 

15. Rows AND FILE. — When the men are arranged at the commencement of the 
game they are in two ranks. The horizontal ranks of squares are termed "rows "or 
ranks, and the vertical squares "files." 

1 6. THE EXCHANGE. — Winning or losing a Rook for a minor piece is called win- 
ning or losing the exchange. 

17. GAMBIT. — A word derived from the Italian, signifying to trip up in wrestling, 
used in Chess phraseology in certain openings, in which a player sacrifices a Pawn for 
the sake of obtaining an attack. The Pawn thus sacrificed is called the "gambit" 
Pawn. 

1 8. DOUBLED PAWN. — Two Pawns of the same color on the same file are called 
doubled Pawns. 

19. ISOLATED PAWN. — A Pawn which cannot be supported by other Pawns and 
stands alone on a file is called an isolated Pawn. 

XXVI 

TECHNICAL TERMS. 

20. PASSED PAWN. — A Pawn is called " passed" when there is no hostile Pawn to 
prevent its march to the eighth square. 

21. To TAKE "EN PASSANT" OR IN PASSING. — On his first move in the game the 
Pawn has the privilege of advancing two squares. But, if in thus advancing, he passes 
a square attacked by a hostile Pawn, which is posted at a fifth square, counting from the 
opposite side, he is liable to be captured "in passing" by the said Pawn, which may in- 
tercept him in his passage as if he had only moved one square. For instance, after the 
moves i P— K4, i P— K4 ; 2 KKt— 63, 2 QKt— BS ; 3 P— Q4, 3 PXP; 4 B— 84, 4 
Kt — 63 ; 5 P — K5, 5 P — Q4 ; White's King's Pawn may capture the Pawn which has 
just advanced two squares as if it had only moved one square, which means that 
White may take off the Pawn at Black's Q4 and place his own King's Pawn at Black's 
Q3. Compare Diagram. 

Position after White's 6th move, PxP en passant or in passing. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

But the capture ' ' en passant " must be effected at once on the move, for the adverse 
Pawn cannot be thus taken subsequently. Only Pawns — not pieces — can capture or be 
captured "en passant." 

The Pawn was not allowed formerly the privilege of taking "en passant," the rule 
having been first adopted in Spain in the time of Ruy Lopez, and afterwards legalized 
in France, England and Germany. Until quite recently it was not allowed in Italy. 

22. DRAWN GAME. — When neither player can checkmate his adversary, the game is 
drawn. The following are instances in which this occurs : — i. By perpetual check ; 2. 
When both players persist in repeating the same moves ; 3. By stalemate ; 4. When 
the stronger force cannot give checkmate within the number of moves specified in Law 
XI ; 5. When the forces on either side are equal, or nearly so, as Queen versus Queen, 
Rook versus Rook or Bishop, etc, 

CHESS AS A TRAINING OF MIND AND HOW TO IMPROVE. xxvii 

CHAPTER V. 

CHESS AS A TRAINING OF MIND AND How TO IMPROVE. 

The practice of our noble pastime is in no way influenced by any element of 
chance, excepting that of temporary individual dispositions, which after all forms a most 
important element of strength, and the results of Chess contests are therefore strictly 
based on a scientific and logical foundation. Both parties are placed on a perfectly equal 
footing on starting, as regards the forces and their respective powers, and the same rules 
regulate the movements or actions of the combatants. It is, therefore, purely a battle of 
the reasoning qualities that decides the issue in a, game of Chess, and the infinite variety 
of possible combinations in playing the game afford the widest scope for the exercise, 
and, therefore, the training of the logical as well of the imaginative faculties of mind. 
Since the introduction of our noble pastime in civilized countries a great number of the 
foremost thinkers, warriors and statesmen of different nationalities have been attracted 
by its charms, and some of them have devoted as much attention to the study and practice 
of Chess as to the cultivation of art and literature. In our time the game is becoming 
more widely popular among intelligent people in different countries, and it is almost 
universally recognized as a healthy mental exercise, which in its effects on the intellectual 
faculties is akin to that of physical gymnastics on the conservation and development of 
bodily strength. Moreover, the cultivation of the game seems also to exercise a -direct 
influence on the physical condition of Chess players and the prolongation of their lives, 
for most of the celebrated Chess masters and authors on the game have reached a very 
old age, and have preserved their mental powers unimpaired in some instances up to 
their very last moments. It has also been computed that the average length of life of 
the general devotees of the game is the highest in comparison to any other class of men 
whose duration of life has been systematically subjected to statistical observation*. 

This can be no mere coincidence, and, incongruous as it may seem to connect lon- 
gevity with the study and practice of Chess, we believe the conclusion to be a sound 
one, which can be placed from experience on rational grounds. 

It is only natural that men gifted with intellectual abilities will favor a mental pas- 
time that exercises the highest qualities of mind, in a similar manner as men who are 
endowed with great physical powers will be attracted by recreations and amusements 
that develop and maintain their bodily strength. Once a Chess player becomes initiated 
in the elements of the game he derives an extraordinary amount of entertainment and 
pleasure from pursuing it, and a healthy spirit of emulation stimulates his ambition to 
become proficient in the noble pastime. He is then sure to learn by experience that any 
habits that are injurious to general health will also greatly disturb his capacity to do his 
best and to improve as a player, and that modes of living that are detrimental to a sound 
condition of body must be rigorously checked or else his play deteriorates. On the old 
maxim, "mens sana in corpora sana" it may therefore reasonably be assumed that 
as a general rule, with very few exceptions, ardent devotees of the game will be intelli- 

*We make this statement on the authority of Mr. Jas. D. Seguin, Chess editor of the Times -Democrat. 
of New Orleans. 

xxviii CHESS AS A TRAINING OF MIND AND HOW TO IMPROVE. 

gent people, who are possessed of healthy organizations, and as the practice of our pas- 
time is conducive to habits that are beneficial to the preservation of good health, it will 
also greatly influence the prolongation of life. 

Some of the foremost tninkers have spoken in the highest terms of the game of 
Chess as an intellectual amusement and as a mark of great capacity, and some of the 
greatest celebrities of different nations has devoted time and attention to the study and 
practice of its intricacies. Goethe, in his translation of " Le Nepheu de Rameau" 
by Diderot, endorses the opinion of the celebrated French philosopher who describes it 
as "the touchstone of the human brain." Prince Bismarck, in disparagement of mere 
rhetorical ability, once remarked that "great orators, as a rule, can neither play a good 
game of Chess or whist," which shows that this pre-eminent statesman thought more 
highly of the capacity for playing games of skill as a test of acumen than he did of 
the oratorical faculty. President Grevy of France is a great lover and supporter of the 
game, and during his Presidential term he offered prizes from the public funds for Na- 
tional and International Chess Tournaments in France. Buckle, the author of " The 
History of Civilization" was one of the greatest Chess masters of our age. Leib- 
nitz, Voltaire, Lessing, Mendelssohn, Alfred de Musset, Frederic the Great, Napoleon I, 
and William I, were fond of the game and most of those famous men are reported to 
have acquired great skill as players. 

The literature of the game belongs to the oldest on record in many languages, and 
its rapid increase in our time has been greatly instrumental in reviving the general popu- 
larity of our pastime, as it has facilitated the study of the openings and of practical ex- 
amples of play between masters. The spread of the game all over the civilized world is, 
however, chiefly due to the inauguration of International Chess Congresses and matches 
between experts, which from time to time are organized in the principal capitals of 
Europe and the American Continent. These public exhibitions of Chess skill have been 
watched with the keenest attention by lovers of the game literally all over the face of 
the globe, for not alone the results of play, but also whole records of games have been 
communicated through the' medium of the newspaper press and the cable to the widest 
distances on our planet*. Fresh talents have been constantly drawn out by those public 
tests of strength which have formed the training schools for some of the greatest masters 
of our time, who have developed novel, thereoretical and practical ideas that greatly 
help students of the game to overcome the chief difficulties in mastering the intricacies 
of our pastime. 

These difficulties were in former days considered quite insurmountable, and profi- 
ciency in the "art of human reason," as Chess has been aptly termed by Gustavus 
Selenus (Duke August, jun., of Brunswick), was held to be the special privilege of only 
a very few. But undeniable experience has shown that prominence and even excel- 
lence in Chess may be acquired in a manner similar to that in which proficiency may 
be obtained in other accomplishments that require mental exertion, and that with proper 
training and study the large majority of learners may generally improve their Chess 
strength up to a very high degree at least, and sometimes to mastery. 

At first sight the infinite variety of combinations that are possible on the Chess 
board may appear a most discouraging obstacle in the way of achieving success in the 
game, and it is only due to quote in that respect the following extract from an article 

* It is due to state that the first example of bringing the telegraph into requisition for reporting all the 
moves of games of Chess was set.by the New York Herald during the match between Messrs. Steinitz and 
Martinez, played in Philadelphia in 1882. This most enterprising journal has since published cable re- 
ports ot whole games played in the London Tournament of 1886, and during the contest between Messrs. 
Steinitz and Tschigorin, at Havana, in the beginning of 1889. 

CHESS AS A TRAINING OF MIND AND HOW TO IMPROVE. xxix 

entitled "The Inexhaustibility of Chess," by Mr. Kdwyn Anthony, of Hereford, which 
first appeared in the Chess Players' Chronicle of 1878 : 

"To estimate the actual number of ways of playing even a very few moves is beyond the power oj 
calculation, but to get something of an approximation to that number is very simple. Taking a variation 
of each of the openings as in Cook's Synopsis, \ve find that the first player has an average of 28, 30, and 
33 ways of playing the second, third, and fourth moves respectively; 29, 31, and 33 being the correspond- 
ing numbers for the seconnd player. Of course both players have a choice of 20 moves on their first 
On the hypothesis that the number of replies open at each move is always the same whatever the 
preceding move may have been, and that the foregoing figures give those numbers, the number of possible 
ways of playing the first four moves only on each side would be 318,979,564,000. if, then, anyone were 
to play without cessation, at the rate of one set a minute, it would take him more than 600,000 years to go 
through them all. It would be difficult to say whether the above number is in excess or defect of the true 
one, but perhaps we may safely affirm that it is not likely to be out more than 20 per cent, either way. 
When we bear in mind that the number of possible ways increases for many moves, some thirty-fold for 
each move added, it is plain that the number of ways ot playing twenty or thirty moves on each side is so 
great as to utterly transcend the grasp of the imagination. No doubt the ratio of the plausible to the pos- 
sible number of moves at every stage is usually small, but after every allowance has been made for that 
fact, the varieties of play still remain enormous. In a very rough way, we may easily extend our sur- 
vey. After the first four moves in a common form of the " Giuoco Piano " opening, White has 33 possible 
moves at command; and after eight frequently played moves in the "Evans' Gambit," he has a choice of 
32 moves, Let us assume then for convenience of calculation that, for the next six moves on each side 
after the first four on each side, there is always a choice of thirty different ways of playing — a hypothesis 
probably below rather than above the actual fact, We thus get, by combination with the result quoted 
above, that the number of ways of playing the first ten moves on each side is 169518,829100,544000,000000,- 
DOOOOO. These figures are probably in defect rather than in excess of the actual number. On their basis, 
however, and considering the population of the whole world to be 1,483 millions (Levaseur's estimate), 
lore than 2 if billions of years would be needed to go through them all, even if every man, woman and 
liild on the face of the globe played without cessation for that enormous period at the rate of one set per 
linute and no set was repeated." 

In this connection it will be interesting to mention that the first player has the 
hoice of 20 different moves to start with — namely, the moves of the eight . Pawns one 
r two squares — and of each of the two Knights to two different squares — whilst the op- 
)onent has the option of 20 different answers to each one of the first player's 20 moves, 
"here are, therefore, 400 different ways of making the first move on each side without 
roceeding any further, and 400 is therefore the unit in the arithmetical progression for 

purpose of calculating the number of combinations that are possible in playing the 
ame. Buc it should be remembered that there is a like infinity, from l.he mathematical 
>oint of view, in the art of music, which has nevertheless become popular, and it has 
>een found that the talent for music, which is almost universal among civilized nations, 
an be cultivated and extended by study and practice. We believe that this is also true 
•f Chess, and the knowledge of the game could be made even easier of acquirement by 
he great majority of people than it is now, if rational modes of improvement were 
be adopted. 

The advice which we offer on the subject is, in the first place, that a learner .ahould 
hould seek as much as possible to play on even terms with superior players. From ex- 
>erience and observation we feel sure that he will learn much faster in this manner than 
y taking odds. The latter method of practice engenders the habit on the part of the 
•dds-receiver of exchanging pieces without any other motive than to reduce the forces. 
le may also with comparative impunity commit many mistakes anyone of which would 
urely cost him the game if he started on even terms, and the object of the student 
ught not to be so much to win games as to train himself to play correctly. By taking 
dds a player loses the opportunity to observe the finer points of play of his adversary 
rho on account of his inferiority in force cannot always afford to adopt the best strategy 

xxx - CHESS AS A TRAINING OF MIND AND HOW TO IMPROVE. 

and is more apt to resort to lines of play which he knows to be unsound, relying on the 
inability of the weaker player to perceive the correct reply, Moreover, the openings in 
games at odds are quite different from those adopted in even games and, therefore, the 
odds-receiver is not advancing in one important branch of Chess knowledge, For these 
reasons we also think that handicap tournaments ought to be discouraged in Chess clubs, 
and if it be desirable at all to offer special inducements of chances of prizes to weaker 
players who are not satisfied with the opportunities of better practice with their superiors 
on even terms, then the odds might be given by a method which we believe was first 
adopted in the Bohemian Chess Club of Prague, namely: to give the advantage of half a 
game or more in the score to the weaker players. 

One thing that we would especially urge upon the Chess student is that regularity of 
study and practice very much facilitates making rapid progress. The player by fits and 
starts will scarcely ever improve and it is much better to devote to Chess one hour per 
day for six consecutive days than six hours one day in the week. In order to strengthen 
the powers of Chess perception and memory, a good habit to cultivate is that of playing 
over from recollection one's own games, or more especially selected and well annotated 
published games played by masters. One great advantage of the published games is 
that when the memory occasionally fails it may be refreshed by reference to the publi- 
cation. 

A very important point is always to observe strictly the law of "touch and move." 
But the temptation to take back a move is very great with a beginner ; and it has been 
found desirable for this purpose to play for a small stake, as this causes it to be consid- 
ered a point of honor to play strictly according to the rules. This practice has become 
usual in the principal Chess clubs of Europe, as well as in the larger cities of the United 
States and in Havana. Other advantages of playing for a small stake are that it tends to 
promote greater care in the play and to check comments or suggestions from the by- 
standers. The game of Chess is so utterly unsuited for gambling that no danger is in- 
curred by the practice, and the players usually know each other's strength, and either 
the score is about even or the weaker player fully expects to lose, but is willing to pay asi 
a fee for the amusement and instruction which he receives from his adversary. 

In advance of a separate treatise on problems which we intend to publish in another 
volume of this work, we may state that the study of this beautiful branch of our science 
is extremely useful for the purpose of developing and increasing strength in practical 
play. It is especially the faculty of precision which has to be exercised absolutely in the 
study of problems, whereas in the game the winning process may often be effected in 
many different ways. Yet quite as often it requires the greatest exactitude of calcula- 
tion to make sure of a plan to be adopted in actual play, and the study of compositions 
where the utmost power of the forces has to be employed in the fewest number of moves 
is therefore a splendid training for the purpose. Some of the greatest players, like. 
Morphy, Anderssen, Blackburne, etc. , have devoted great attention to this subject, which 
has grown to almost a separate art, and it is especially noteworthy that a more brilliant 
style is usually acquired by masters who combine practice over the board with the study 
of problems. This is only natural, as the brilliant combinations mostly occur in the 
direct King's side attack, and the various beautiful mating positions which are brought 
out in problems lead, therefore, to the conception of similar ideas in actual play. But 
we wish to point out particularly that, though it is better for the student to try and solve 
problems, this is by no means absolutely necessary in order to derive great benefit from 
the study of that branch of Chess. Especially a beginner will find it most entertaining 
and instructive to compare over the board the compositions with the solutions from any 
problem collection by first-class authors, or from periodicals where usually the solutions| 

Till': MODERN SCHOOL AND ITS TENDENCY. xxxi 

arc published in full in the next number after the problem has first appeared. Advanced 
students may, in a similar way, assist their perception by looking at the key move in a 
problem of more than two moves, but all the variations ought to be carefully played 
over or worked out. 'In that way, and provided that this be done with great regularity, 
about three or four problems per day, the student will soon become familiar with many 
leading ideas in very difficult problems, and after sometime he will be able to solve them 
almost at a glance from the diagram. 

CHAPTER VI. 

THE MODERN SCHOOL AND ITS TENDENCY. 

The object of the game, as already explained, is to checkmate the adverse King as 
early as x>ssible, and the whole play of each party has to be made subservient to that end. 
Theorists and practical experts have naturally attempted to effect this purpose, or at any 
rate to gain some material advantage by a direct attack against the hostile King in the 
| opening, and in numerous instances they have succeeded in proving that Pawns and 
pieces may be given up very early in the game for the purpose of harassing the adverse 
King and with the effect of accomplishing the mate, or at least of recovering material greater 
n value than what had been temporarily sacrificed. Generally such attacks are essayed 
n practice by the first player, or advocated in analysis for the same party, and it was 
ilways admitted that the second player cannot obtain such opportunites in the opening 
xcepting when a fault is committed by the adversary. But later researches and. practical 
rials among masters have proved that such sacrifices early in the game, even of the first 
>arty, are mostly unsound or else they succeed only in consequence of moves on. the 
•ther side which can be demonstrated as errors of development. 

In fact it is now conceded by all experts that by proper play on, both sid.es the; 
sgitimate issue of a game ought to be a draw, and that the right of making the first. 
nove might secure that issue, but is not worth the value of a Pawn. It therefore follows, that 
tieoretically as well as practically, among first-class masters of equal strength, not a. 
ingle Pawn can be given up by either party at any stage of the game without at least, 
reatly endangering the result, unless it can be soon recovered. But, moreover, it has. 
een proven beyond any doubt that, irrespective of an attack against the adverse King,, 
mere weakness of any square on any part of the board (of which we shall give some, 
irther explanation) will cause great inconvenience and trouble and very often will be 
ital. In the middle of the game such points will generally be occupied by a hostile 
iece that will exercise a menacing attitude, and will be extremely difficult to dislodge, 
hich often gives the adversary time to strengthen his position, either by bringing more 
f his forces to bear on such a point or by obtaining greater freedom for his other 
ieces for the formation of an attack in another direction. A game will generally be. 
>st when such a vantage ground can be taken by the opponent on the King's side or in 
centre before the exchange of several pieces have been effected, but such weak 
luares are also dangerous in the ending after the exchange of Queens and Rooks, and 
hen the Kings are brought into play, for it is then mostly important to gain moves with 
.e Pawns, and the side that is free from weak points will have a great advantage for 
,at purpose. 

But it is specially as regards the powers of the King that the modern school deviates 
Dm the teachings and practice of old theorists and Chess masters, and we consider it 

xxxn THE MODERN SCHOOL AND THE PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. 

established that the King must be treated as a strong piece both for attack and defence. 
This means that so far from the King requiring great protection early in the game a 
few simple precautions which we shall further explain, will render him so safe that any 
attempt at attacking his wing will be more dangerous for the opponent than for himself. 
For such attacks can only be formed either by advancing Pawns on that wing, in which 
case those Pawns become weak for the ending, if the attack fails; or else by directing 
several pieces against the adverse King and thus deploying them for defensive action or 
some other point of the board where the opponent may break in with superior forces. 
But, moreover, several forms of openings have been developed in which the King, though 
apparently on the defensive for some time, is brought into action early in the game, and 
after withstanding a seemingly vehement attack, obtains perfect security with the superioi 
position generally for the ending, by means of forcing the exchange of heavy pieces 
after having gained some advantage in material^ but sometimes also in the middle game, 
with nearly all the principal forces of both parties on the board. 

These are in the main the leading ideas of the modern school, as it has been called, 
though in fact, they formulate no more than an extension in general of maxims of play 
which with the intuitive instinct of genius have already been adopted by old masters and 
theorists in some of the openings. For instance, the Bishop's Gambit and the Salvic 
Gambit show, that though the King has to move early and is deprived of the right ol 
Castling, a strong attack can be formed with the minor pieces, owing to the Queen bein<2 
brought out early into the adverse game. Likewise the French defence on the very firsi 
move of the second player obviates beyond any manner of doubt, for a great number ol 
moves, all sacrificing tactics and even the combination play on the part of the first player, 
and calls at once for the very treatment that is now advocated as the classical one by besi 
play on both sides, and which consists in a steady development without any sacrifice oj 
material, circumspective attention to the balance of forces and of position on all parts oj 
the board, and the accumulation of small advantages if possible. The principal thesis 
«of the modern school may be briefly summarised thus: _Among first-class masters 
ithe capture of the adverse King is the ultimate but not the first object of the game 
.•and by best play on both sides a draw ought to be the legitimate result. 

When it is remembered that a mere alteration in the order of a few consecutive 
-moves sometimes leads to an enormous number of new variations it will be easily under- 
'Stood that a change of a whole system involved the introduction of innumerable new 
lines of play and the development of novel ideas that were often in direct opposition tc} 
popular notions and tastes. Objections have been raised against the reform chiefly onl 
the ground that its tendencies are calculated to abolish or at any rate to reduce brillian^ 

• combinations which it is assumed are the special characteristics of the direct attack again 
the King. We can only answer that this is a sort of sentimental objection that ought td 
.exercise but very little influence on our game which is essentially of a scientific character.?! 
We entirely agree with Baron von Heydebrand und der Lasa who lays down the sound 
•maxim: "The simplest and the shortest way of winning is the best." Correctness of judg| 
ment and calculation ought to be chiefly cultivated in the exercise of our pastime, and w 
merely shows primitive taste to prefer brilliancy to soundness. Elegance of style wheil 
opportunity arises is no doubt an attribute of a great master, but the fact should never bjj 
lost sight of that the 'brilliant sacrificing combinations can only occur when either side hatjl 

• committed some grave error of judgment in the disposition of his forces, and therefore,)) 
only very rarely in important games between first-class masters. Thus, for instance, • 
the matches of Morphy against his most prominent opponents such brilliant sacrifice.1.1! 
occurred only in 2 games out of 63, and the extraordinary elegance and dash of Morphy'd 

: style was.chisfly shown in. his, blindfold performances, games at odds and skittle plajj 

RELATIVE VALUE OF PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. xxxiii 

against more or less inferior opponents. The same observation applies to the practice of 
Chess masters of our time who have greatly increased in number, and as the game has 
also grown more popular the opportunities arising for first-class players of displaying 
their ingenuity against less skilled opponents are more frequent. In our opinion the bril- 
liancies have in no way been reduced in proportion and on the contrary they have 
become common even among players who do not belong to the very first rank. The 
special prizes for instance which are sometimes offered in tournaments for the most 
.brilliant games are generally taken by competitors who do not obtain a high score. This 
goes to prove that a certain element of hazard is introduced into the aim for brilliant 
combinations and only those who have little to lose run the risk. But even the sound 
combinations that involve great sacrifices very rarely present difficulties as great as the 
maintainance of the balance of position, and the strategy required in leading up to the 
final winning process. Very often each player has to look far ahead of possible brilliant 
combinations on the part of the opponent and accordingly adopts means of prevention 
which, though apparently simple, require greater depth and ingenuity than the plans which 
they obviate. Players who exercise their faculties for the purpose of acquiring soundness 
of judgment in general will also strengthen their perceptions for the most complicated 
manoeuvres of the King's side attack. 

CHAPTER VII. 

RELATIVE VALUE OF PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. 

One of the most important exigencies in the conduct of the game is the exercise of 
the most critical judgment in estimating the relative value of the Pawns and pieces which 
must be strongly taken into consideration in effecting exchanges, as well as in the for- 
mulation of general principles for the guidance of play in all parts of the game. But 
owing to the endless number and variety of combinations that are possible over the 
board, it has been found impossible to give more than an approximate theoretical and 
practical comparison of the relative powers of the men. In Staunton's Handbook, page 
34, it is stated that some scientists have calculated the approximate mathematical value, 
to be as follows : Taking the Pawn as the unit, the Knight is worth 3.05 ; the Bishop 
3.50 ; the Rook 5.48, and the Queen 9.94. On this basis, which in the main is in accor- 
dance with our own experience and observations, we shall proceed to indicate, ;n connec- 
tion with the above approximate valuation, some of the most important general principles 
of regulating the actions of the men which we believe are now mostly accepted by the 
strongest masters of the day, and the knowlege of which very often enables the player to 
dispense with analysis, or at any rate greatly assists his calculations. As, however, al- 
ready explained in our preface, the scope of this work will not enable us to illustrate the 
application of our guiding maxims any further than is done in our notes to our analysis 
and selected games. We shall now endeavor to describe seriatim and briefly the 
powers of each man, and its most favorable mode of development, as well as to offer 
some hints as far as practicable about its value and action in the middle game and in 
the ending. 

THE KING is considered invaluable, according to all authorities, on account of his 
not being liable to capture or exchange, which also involves the complication of his hav- 
ing to move out of check, or to cover the same, or to capture a checking man to the 

xxxiv RELATIVE VALUE OF PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. 

exclusion of the choice of other moves. Baron von Heyclebrand in Bilguer's Pland- 
bucJi very properly describes the power of the King for the Pawn ending as stronger 
than any minor piece, namely, a Knight or a Bishop. We are inclined to extend this 
valuation to all parts of the game, and we would add that the action of the King com- 
bined with one defended Pawn is about equal to that of a Rook, provided that neither 
the adverse King nor any other hostile man can co-operate with the latter. We agree 
in the main with the authorities who recommend that the King should] as a rule castle 
early on the King's side, but this refuge of the King is sometimes fraught with danger 
when one of the Pawns on the King's wing — more especially the KKtP or KRP — have 
been previously moved or may soon be compelled to advance. Likewise when the op- 
ponent has obtained the majority of Pawns on the Queen's side it is generally better not 
to widen the distance between the King and the adverse majority, as the King is a pow- 
erful piece in the ending for stopping the hostile Pawns. In either of these cases it is 
desirable to aim first at an exchange of Queens and some minor pieces and to postpone 
Castling or not to Castle at all. The King is sometimes brought into play at Q2 after 
developing the minor pieces on the Queen's side, or at KB2 after the advance of the KB 
P. Castling on the Queen's side is not often advantageous, for it leaves the QRP 
undefended as the Handbuck rightly points out. The notable exceptions are when the 
Queen's file has been opened for the player who Castles on the Queen's side, while the 
adversary cannot open that file; or when the Pawns on the King's side can be advanced 
for a strong attack with the co-operation of other pieces against the adverse King who 
has Castled on the other side. In Castling on either side, it should be remembered, that 
the RP, KtP and BP on that wing in conjunction with a minor piece, generally a B or a 
Kt at 63 or at B sq. (after removing respectively the KR — K sq. or K — B sq.) form an 
excellent protection against the larger majority of attacks that can be planned by the op- 
ponent. The advance of either of these Pawns should therefore be postponed as long 
as possible, or else it will form an easier mark for the attack of the hostile men, and one 
of the minor pieces should be kept within convenient reach of 63 or B sq. on the side 
on which the King has Castled. 

Excepting some openings that will be specially treated in this work it is rarely good 
play to move the King in the early part of the game. But this may be resorted to even 
with advantage in some cases when the opponent allows his KP to be taken with a Kt 
in order to gain the KBP for it. For instance, after the moves i P — K4, i P — K4; 2 B 
— 64, 2 KKt — 63; 3 QKt — 63, Black though the second player may now safely reply 3 
. . . .KtXP and allow his King to be disconcerted for a little while by the answer 4 BX 

P ch., for after 4 KXB; 5 KtXKt, 5 P— Q4; 6 Q— B3 ch., 6 K— Kt sq.; 7 Kt— Kt 

5, 7 Q — Qz; the attack will be soon transferred to Black who has gained the advantage of 
the strong combination of two Bishops and the formation of an excellent centre. Some 
other analogous cases arise sometimes in the opening and may be treated in a similar man- 
ner. Occasionally it becomes necessary in the middle game either for purposes of attack or 
defence to remove the King from one side to the other, and sometimes by way of squares 
in the middle of the board. Such a movement ought only to be adopted with the 
greatest precautions for it generally involves the loss of costly material especially when 
Queens are not yet exchanged. But on the other hand, the strong defensive powers of 
the King ought to be fearlessly estimated, and when no such loss is threatened or the 
opponent cannot bring sufficient pieces up for the attack, it should be remembered that 
it requires a combination of great powers to mate the King. For instance, when he 
stands on any of the border squares and is not blocked by any of his own men, he can 
only be mated by forces that are rarely available for such a purpose in the middle game. 
A single piece will often cover his retreat or at least delay mating operations even against 

RELATIVE VALUE OK PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. xxxv 

O and R combined. And when the King travels in the middle of the board without 
biMiiir obstructed in his movements by his own forces, it requires at least the combined 
strength of Queen, Rook or a minor piece, and one Pawn, which, moreover, must be in 
a special favorable position for the purpose, in order to effect mate. Staunton justly 
warns against giving useless checks, but recommends as generally good play, to give a 
check early in the game when by so doing the adverse King can be compelled to move 
and thus be deprived of the right of Castling. The same authority also says: " Do not 
jn all cases take an enemy's Pawn that stands before your King — it may sometimes serve 
as a protection to him." 

In the ending the King is a powerful piece for assisting his own Pawns or stopping 
the adverse Pawns. In trying to stop an adverse passed Pawn that cannot be supported 
by his own King, it must be observed that the King must stand or be able to move t<> 
any square of a quadrate that can be formed by taking as a measure of one line, the number of 
squares from the one inclusive on which the Pawn stands up to that of the top row 
inclusive. Thus, for instance, if White's Pawn stands at QR3, the four points of the 
quadrate are the squares at QR$, QR8, KB8, and KB3, or respectively for Black, QR6; 
QRsq., KBsq., and KB6. If Black's King stands on nny square from KB sq. up to 
KB6, and therefore at the greatest distance between the position of the Pawn and any 
square of the quadrate, he will still catch the Pawn even if the latter has the move. To 
give another illustration, we assume that White's Pawn stands at QR$ and in that case 
Black will be able to stop the P if he stands or can reach any square from Q sq. to Q4. 
But it should be noticed that if White's Pawn stands on its original square at QR2, the 
Black King standing on the furthest file of the quadrate, namely: on any square from 
KKt sq. to KKt/ inclusive, must have the move in order to stop the Pawn, as the latter 
can move two squares at starting. Likewise in any original position of the Pawn, the 
adverse King, if standing on any square of his yth row without at once being able to 
capture the Pawn, must have the first move, even if he is within the quadrate in order to 
stop the Pawn. But unless the King stands on the file in front of the Pawn, the latter 
can never be stopped if there are more than four squares in any straight direction between 
the King and the Pawn. 

THE QUEEN is the most powerful piece on the board, and for that reason should not 
be subjected to attacks from inferior hostile men by being brought out early in the 
game. As the HandbucJi points out it is dangerous, especially in the opening, to 
place the Queen on the same file or diagonal as the King. Before the game is well 
developed, three pieces including the Rook, or two Rooks, may be given up for the 
Queen with advantage, but when the adverse position is well defended and the pieces can 
be brought into co-operation, three pieces, including one Rook, or two Rooks 
are superior to the Queen. Two Knights and one Bishop are generally infe- 
rior to the Queen. The most favorable points of development for the Queen 
are Q2 after developing the QB, or QB2 as well as QKt3 after moving P — QB3. 
The latter development is especially attacking in forms of openings where the KB is play- 
ed to QB4. It is rarely good to play Q — K2 or KB3 in the opening, but such posts may 
sometimes be selected without disadvantage when the adversary has already played P — 
QB3 or is otherwise prevented from bringing out his QKt — QB3, whence the Queen 
would soon be attacked by Kt — Q5. In some of the close games, the Queen may be de- 
veloped at QR4 after moving the QBP in order to post the KR at Q sq. and the QR at 
QB sq. after developing all the minor pieces. In openings in which the QPis advanced 
to Q4 the attack is often formed against the adverse King's side, by placing the Q at Q3 
after having manoeuvred the KB on the same diagonal at QB2 or QKt sq. Another 
favorable post for the Queen in attacking the King's side is at KKt3, and in some cases like 

xxxvi RELATIVE VALUE OF PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. 

the counter-attack in the Evans' Gambit declined, or the new attack adopted by the 
author against the French Defence, the Queen may advantageously be brought out 
at KKt4 for an early attack. Yet a player should always be very cautious before cap- 
turing a hostile Pawn or even a piece with his Queen, as situations often arise in which 
the Queen can be afterward blocked out and ultimately caught for inadequate material; or 
at any rate her return into her own camp is thus delayed until the opponent has gained 
time for instituting a formidable attack. 

THE ROOK. Owing to the original position of this piece, which is blocked up by 
its own men, and the nature of its movements, it cannot be made much use of in the 
early part of the game. The KR is in many respects superior to the other for opening 
engagements on account of the earlier facilities for Castling on the King's side. The 
two minor pieces on the King's wing -can be sooner developed into attacking or com- 
manding positions in most open games, whereas on the other side, the Queen has to be 
brought out in addition to the two minor pieces, which in their early development do 
not threaten much and leave the opponent the option of many more replies. In the ma- 
jority of openings commencing with I P — K4, the Castling on the King's side also offers 
the first opportunities for opening a file for the Rook by advancing P — KB4, and this is 
of the utmost importance for that piece, which can only be brought into action on open 
files or rows. It should be noticed that the two combined Rooks are in the most favor- 
able position for attack and defence when doubled on an open file. One of the most 
powerful attacking posts for one Rook and still more for the two combined Rooks, is on 
the 7th row, for usually some of the Pawns of the adversary are stationed on their origi- 
nal squares and are thus more liable to capture. Such a situation of Rooks also often 
fprms an irresistible attack against the adverse King, which is usually confined on the 
front row. Other common ways of leading the Rooks for an attack against the King's 
side, is to bring one of them by way of KB3 to KR3, after the advance of P — KB4 and after 
the exchange or dislodgment of the adverse QB, and then the other Rook in a similar 
manner to KKt3. Such an attack, if well supported by minor pieces or the Queen, is 
often most formidable, but nevertheless, its prospect of success must be well weighed, 
for if the attack fails, the heavier pieces remain uselessly packed together on the King's 
side, and the opponent has the better chance of winning if he can in the meanwhile form 
an attack with his Pawns in the centre or on the Queen's wing. 

Two co-operating Rooks are stronger than the Queen when all points are well de- 
fended, but more especially when the King is well guarded against harassing checks. 
But it should be remembered that the Rooks are rather clumsy pieces to handle, while the 
agility and long range of the Queen in all directions afford for the latter many opportun- 
ities for defence and attack, especially in conjunction with one or more minor pieces. The 
Handbuch remarks that the Rooks are most fitted for supporting the advance of 
passed Pawns, but much less strong for stopping them, whereas Queens and Bishops are 
powerful pieces for checking the Pawns. It is therefore advisable for the party that has 
strong Pawns to exchange Queens and Bishops and to retain the Rooks, while the con- 
trary policy should be adopted for the defence. The Rook is generally slightly stronger 
than a Knight and two Pawns; while a Bishop and two Pawns are in practical play a 
shade stronger than the Rook. A Rook and two Pawns are superior to two Knights 
and a little better than Knight and Bishop, but about equal with two Bishops. Two 
Rooks are a little stronger than two Knights and a Bishop, but slightly inferior to two 
Bishops and a Knight. In all cases, however, a great deal depends on various consider- 
ations that have also to be borne in mind when a minor piece is given up for Pawns, 
namely, the position of Pawns, and whether their majority is compact on one wing or di- 
vided, whether the King can support his Pawns or whether the adversary's King is nigh 

RELATIVE VALUE OF PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. xxxvii 

enough to stop them, whether or not one or more passed Pawns can be formed, and 
whether there are other Pawns on the board that are liable to capture or are well defended. 
It also must not be lost sight of that the party having the Pawns, and provided there are no 
other Pawns on the board, or all others can be exchanged, has the only chance of win- 
ning, whereas the party thus fighting against the Pawns can only play for a draw. 

In the ending when trying to advance one or more passed Pawns without the King 
and against the adverse Rook alone, it is generally best to place the Rook behind the 
Pawns in order not to obstruct their advance. But when fighting against hostile Pawns, 
it is mostly advisable to attack them in the rear or to stop the one furthest advanced in 
the same manner. Two passed Pawns on adjoining rows will win against the Rook 
with or without the move when they have both reached the sixth square of their file, 
provided that the adverse King is at least at a distance of three clear squares from the 
Pawn next to him, and that neither Pawn can be taken by the Rook at once. In a sim- 
ilar manner, three adjoining passed Pawns on the fifth squares of their file will win 
against the Rook with or without the move if the adverse King is at a distance of at least 
four clear squares, and provided that neither Pawn can be taken at once by the Rook. 
But it is necessary to know that if the Rook attacks any of the Pawns excepting the mid- 
dle one of the three, the Pawn thus attacked should be given up and one of the others 
should be pushed, when the remaining two will secure reaching the sixth square before 
the adverse King comes up. If, however, the Rook attack the middle Pawn that lawn 
must be first advanced. 

THE BISHOP. The relative value of this piece has given rise to different opinions 
among masters and authorities. Some have shown or expressed a distinct preference for 
the Knight in the ending and it has also been asserted that in conjunction with Queen 
and Rook, the Knight is stronger than the Bishop. But after careful consideration of 
the average of positions that have attracted our attention and the few exceptions positive- 
ly in favor of either piece, we have come to the conclusion that the power of the Bishop 
corresponds for practical purposes with its estimated superior mathematical value over 
the Knight in the opening, and in the middle part as well as in the ending, and in the 
majority of combinations with other forces. The great power of the Bishop, especially 
in conjunction with the other Bishop for attack in all directions, as well as for the de- 
fence has been first systematically and consistently demonstrated in practice over the 
board by the great German master, Louis Paulsen, who may be regarded in many re- 
spects as one of the chief pioneers of the modern school. 

In the opening the KB is preferable to the other on account of his usual aggres- 
sive bearing against the hostile King's side. His best post in the development of open 
games is at QB4, whence he is often retreated to Q3 or QB2 after advancing P — Q4 and 
P — QB3 if the opponent has Castled on the King's side. In some openings in which the 
adversary is enabled to bring his Kt — K4, or in close games, or when the opponent threat- 
ens aw attack on the King's side by bringing his pieces or Pawns to bear against the KKt5 
square, the KB is sometimes better posted at Kz in order to avoid its being exchanged for 
a Knight or for other defensive purposes. The QB is mostly developed at Q2 or K3, but 
in some openings he can be kept at home for a long time until P — KB4 can be played 
with advantage, and in case the adversary capture that P with the KP, an excellent 
game will often be obtained by retaking with the Bishop. As already stated it is often useful 
to keep the respective Bishop within reach of the B sq. on the side on which the King 
has Castled. It is usually best to keep both Bishops in communication with both wings 
and for that reason as well as on account of the superior value of the Bishop it is very 
rarely of advantage to pin an adverse Knight. Notably should the pinning of the hostile 
K Kt by QB — KKt5 be avoided excepting when some clear advantage or compensation 

xxxviii RELATIVE VALUE OF PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. 

can be perceived. For the opponent by attacking the Bishop with P — KR3 will either effect 
an exchange more favorable to himself, or the Bishop will have to retreat with great loss 
of time. It is generally disadvantageous to allow the QB to be driven back to KKt3 out 
of communication with the other wing, especially when his Knight is posted at KB3. 
For defensive purposes it is generally advisable to retain the Bishop of the color on 
which the majority of Pawns are placed or likely to be fixed, more especially when such 
Pawns are stationed on different separated diagonals. For the attack, the Bishop should 
be retained of that color on which the majority of the adverse Pawns are placed and an 
advantage will then generally be effected by endeavoring to break through with well 
supported Pawns. The superiority of the Bishop over the Knight is also shown by the 
fact that the former when placed on any square of the board will command at least 7 
squares of one or more clear diagonals. In the middle of the board at K4, K5, Q4 or 
Q5, he will command 13 squares. On the other hand, the action of the Knight may be 
reduced to the command of no more than two squares, if he be placed into any of the 
four corners of the board, and the maximum of squares which he can command is eight. 

The great power of the two Bishops combined has already been alluded to. They 
are a little superior to Bishop and Knight and considerably stronger than two Knights. 
With the qualifications mentioned in our description of the properties of the Rook where 
we have also given some comparative valuations of Bishop and Rook with Pawns on 
either side, we would further compute that two Bishops and two Pawns are considerably 
stronger than Rook and Knight, and that one Bishop is much better than three Pawns. 
But it should be pointed out that two passed Pawns on the sixth row even if separated 
will win against the Bishop with or without the move, if neither can be taken at once, 
and the adverse King stands at least three clear squares distant from either Pawn. On 
the other hand, a Rook would easily stop such two or even more separated passed Pawns 
if they cannot be supported by their King for some time, by simply placing the Rook on 
his second or first row. 

THE KNIGHT. Some of the old authorities maintained that this peculiar piece should 
not be brought out in any manner as to block one of the Pawns, and therefore not at B 
3 before having advanced the respective BP two squares. The King's Gambit and the 
Bishop's Gambit are founded on that theory. But it is now universally acknowledged 
among experts that i P — K4 on each side, 2 KKt — 63 or 2 QKt — 63 are excellent 
moves, and in most openings the defence ought also to bring out the two Knights on 
their respective third squares without minding the blockation of the Pawn in front of 
them. After Castling on the King's side it is generally a good plan to remove the KKt 
in order to advance P — KB4, and often Kt — K sq. is the best retreat for the purpose. 
But we disapprove on general principles of the plan sometimes adopted of playing P — K 
R3 in order to retreat Kt — R2. The QKt is often manoeuvred from QB3 via K2 to KKt 
3 for the attack, but he is also developed sometimes via Q2 to KB sq. either before or 
after developing the QB and thence to KKt3 or K3 with good effect. When either 
Knight can reach the adverse KB5 without being liable to be driven away or exchanged 
'he will occupy a very menacing position against the adverse King's side, which will 
greatly strengthen any attack in that quarter. The Knights are well adapted for entering 
into "a hole" or a weak square of the adverse game (of which terms we shall give 
some further explanations anon) especially when supported by Pawns on each side. A 
Knight is only very slightly stronger in general than three Pawns. Of its other relative 
valuations we have already spoken under the previous headings, but it is a peculiar fea- 
ture of the Knight that he will be generally stronger than the Bishop in the ending when 
the opponent has a doubled Pawn that cannot be dissolved, more especially when the 
one in front is of the opposite color of the Bishop and is not protected by another Pawn, 

RELATIVE VALUE OF PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. xxxix 

for then the Knight by attacking that Pawn will at least keep the adverse King engaged 
for its protection, while his own King will be free for action. This ingenious maxim 
was chiefly brought into recognition by Herr Winawer. 

THE PAWN. The skilful management of the Pawns which form a phalanx before 
the King and the other pieces, is one of the most important items in the conduct of the 
game. Owing to the privilege of promotion to a Queen, or any other piece chosen, 
which the Pawns possess when reaching the eighth square the loss of one of them is in 
the large majority of cases fatal among first-class masters. It is, moreover, now recog- 
nized among experts that not alone the weakness of one single Pawn but also that of one single 
square into which any hostile man can be planted with commanding effect, will cause 
great trouble, and often the loss of the game, and that by proper management of the 
Pawns such points of vantage need not be opened for the opponent. 

The centre Pawns, namely, the KP and QP will have to be moved in the larger 
majority of openings sooner or later in order to free the pieces on each side, and they are 
not alone the best fitted for commencing operations, but we would lay it down as a 
rule that they are the only ones that ought to be moved in the early part of the game for 
various reasons. In the first place, as long as the three Pawns on each wing remain 
unmoved; there is no weak square or " a hole " on the side which takes that precaution. 
The latter term which is now generally accepted as a technical definition, was first used by 
the author in The International Chess Magazine of November 1886, where the dis- 
advantage which it is intended to describe was also first pointed out, and it is most 
important for the learner fully to appreciate that disadvantage. The ' ' hole " means a square 
on the third or fourth row in front of a Pawn after the two adjoining Pawns have been 
moved or captured. Thus, for instance, after the opening moves i P — K4, I P — K4; 
2 P — QB4; there are already two holes in White's camp, namely, one at Q$ and one at 
Q4. These holes will be all the more dangerous as long as the adverse QP remains at Q4, 
for that Pawn stops the advance of two hostile ones and by skilful play Black will retain 
that advantage for a long time. If White's QP is afterward moved to Q3 that Pawn will 
be weak and'even if he succeed in exchanging that Pawn for another, the squares at Q3 and 
Q4 remain weak, and White will have to guard against the entrance of hostile men on 
those squares with one or more pieces, since both the Pawns that previously could afford 
protection against such entrance are advanced. A hole or a weak square are still more 
tro.ublesome when the opponent is enabled to open the file on which they are situated 
for his Queens and Rooks. In the opening or middle part a hole or weak square are 
most dangerous in the centre or on the King's side before Queens are exchanged, but in 
the ending such weak points are generally more troublesome on the Queen's side. 

In the next place, it is a great advantage for the ending to have as many Pawns as 
possible unmoved on their original squares, £ >r i.tJs often most important to be able to 
gain a move by having the option of pushing a Pawn one or two squares. Furthermore, 
we have already explained that three unmoved Pawns on- the King's side in conjunction 
\vith a minor piece form a strong -bulwark against an attack on that wing, and we shall 
also show anon some reasons against moving, the Pawns jtfi the other wing. 

$\.'3iVin{.Qi\rs Handbook, page 44, gives the following" good advice: "It is generally 
advantageous for your Pawns to occupy the middle of the board, because when there 
they greatly retard the movements of the opposing forces. The KP and the QP at their 
fourth squares are well posted, but it is not easy to maintain them in that position, and if 
you are driven to advance one of them, the power of both is much diminished," To this 
we would add that in general two Pawns are stronger abreast than on a diagonal. The 
former command two Black squares and two White ones in front, while in the latter 
situation, one of the squares is occupied by a Pawn and all the points covered are only 

xl RELATIVE VALUE OF PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. 

of one color. As a rule it is unadvisable to advance any Pawn beyond the fourth square, 
for the further a Pawn is advanced into the hostile camp the sooner he becomes liable to 
capture or inconvenient attack especially in the end. At the utmost a Pawn may be 
sometimes advanced to the fifth square when he can be well supported on each side by 
so-called chains of Pawns that cannot be broken up, but it is very rarely good play to 
advance a Pawn to his sixth square. 

In the early part of the game the formation of a centre such as two Pawns abreast 
at K4 and Q4 is a very desirable object, and in the Gambits of the the King's side the 
KBP is even sacrificed for that purpose. With the view of strengthening the centre it is 
usually better to capture with a P toward the middle rather than toward the wing when 
the capture can be effected by two different Pawns. When both sides have moved P — 
K4 and have also Castled on the King's side, it will be often advantageous to allow 
the KBP to be doubled in order to form some attack on the open KKt file, or else with 
the object of afterward dissolving the doubled Pawn by advancing P — KB4. In like 
manner, the doubling of a Pawn on the QB file may be useful in order to obtain com- 
mand for the QR on the open QKt file and with the view of advancing P — 64. But 
an isolated doubled Pawn, especially one on the Rook's file, is mostly a great disadvantage. 
Most particular care should be taken that the opponent does not obtain the majority of 
Pawns on the Queen's side, on the wing opposite on which the Kings of both parties 
usually Castle. For a skilful player will generally manage to cut off the King from crossing 
to the other side, and the weaker Pawns, thus deprived of the help of a powerful piece, will 
rarely be able to offer sufficient resistance to the opposite superiority of force. The ma- 
jority of Pawns on the King's side is rarely of much use, for the Pawns of that wing can- 
not well advance without exposing their own King, and in the ending the hostile King 
is near at hand for stopping them. 

Each Pawn has its own peculiarities which we shall endeavor to describe briefly. 
The two Rooks' Pawns are the weakest, as each only commands one square, while the 
others command two. But each when advanced is only liable to be attacked by one 
Pawn on the hostile Knight's file, while the other Pawns can be attacked by two hostile 
Pawns, one on each side. When the opponent has first moved P — KR3 after Castling on 
King's side while you have not yet Castled, you may also reply P — KR$ with the view then 
of advancing soon P — KKt4 and endeavoring to break through with the Pawns on that 
wing. It is also good play to drive back a hostile piece by P — KR3, but otherwise, es- 
pecially when you have Castled King's side such an advance is not good, for it exposes 
that Pawn to attack in many contingencies and it also makes it inconvenient to advance 
the KBP, since a hole is then formed at KKt3. 

The KKtP if advanced to KKt3 leaves at once a hole at KR3 and at KB3, for it is 
assumed that the KP has already moved, or will have to move soon. If he advance to 
Kt4, supported by P — KR3, he leaves additional holes at KB4 and KR4. 

It is advantageous to advance the KBP to B4 after Castling when an adverse Pawn 
is fixed at K4 by your own KP which should be well defended. If your QP has been ex- 
changed for the opposite KP, it is more often better to play P — KB3 in support of your 
KP. If the KP has been exchanged on each side, it is rarely good to advance the KBP, 
for it leaves a weak square at K3 against which an attack of the hostile Rook can also 
be directed. If the KBP remains unmoved, he will often give good support to the QB 
or KR at K3. 

The advance of the KP to the fifth square is specially objectionable, as the oppo- 
nent will mostly gain opportunities, by P — KB3, of opening an important file for his j 
Rook. Likewise, if the QP play to his fifth, the answer P — QB3 will release the adverse , 
Queen and open a promising file for the hostile QR. 

RELATIVE VALUE OF PIECES AND PRINCIPLES OF PLAY. xli 

When the QP has been exchanged it is seldom right to advance P — QB3. Likewise, 
when the QP is still at Q3 the advance of the QBP will leave the QP weak, and again, 
under other conditions, it retards the development of QKt — 63 with scarcely enough ob- 
ject in the opening. But still P — QB3 is often a good move later on. 

The advance of the QKtP naturally leaves holes at once at QR3 and at QB3, as P to 
Q4 or P — Q3 are either supposed to be done already or sure to follow. Finally the early 
pushing of the P — QR3 can hardly do any good, but loses time and makes the subse- 
quent advance of the QBP which is sometimes good and necessary, objectionable on the 
gmund that a hole will be created at QKt3. 

Thus it may be repeated in general that in most openings only the KP and QP 
should be manoeuvred in conjunction with a rapid development of the minor pieces, 
and though the KBP and the QBP may also sometimes assist, it is at least useless and 
often compromising to move RP or KtP on either side in the early part of the game. 
A Pawn attack may, however, often be formed with advantage when the opponent has 
crowded too many pieces on one wing or when he has given an opportunity for effecting 
a promising break through on either side by advancing one of his Pawns; but as a rule the 
fight in the centre in conjunction with the two Bishops' Pawns will be sufficient, and at 
east the option of moving one or two squares ought to be reserved for the ending for the 
other Pawns. 

There are other principles based on reasonings by analogies between different 
positions, as well as comparisons and combinations between different principles when 
;hey come in conflict with each other, but as explained in the preface they are outside 
of the limits- of this work, for they would require too laborious illustration. However in 
our introductory comments on the games between Messrs. Steinitz and Tschigorin we 
give some instances of the application of principles in the opening with some explana- 
tions of their influence on later stages of the game. 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

So called after a Spanish bishop who lived during the reign of Philip II. He is re- 
puted to have been the greatest player of his time, and he published an analysis of this 
opening in 1561. It has been held by the greatest masters to be one of the strongest 
openings that the first player could adopt, and. the author has tried the attack in various 
forms since 1876, when he first applied a combination of principles, which were quite new 
at the time, in his first match game against Blackburne. We also adopted it in Vienna, 
1 88 1 ; in London, 1883; and in the match against Zukertort for the championship of the 
world in 1886. Nevertheless, we have come to the conclusion, after careful analysis, that 
this form of opening is no exception to the general rule, inasmuch as the pinning of the 
Knight by the Bishop in the early part of the game cannot be of any advantage ; and we 
find now that at the utmost the game can be made even by White against the best de- 
"ence, which we think is 3. ... P — Q3. Our reason for deviating thus from the time-hon- 
ored 3. . . .Kt— KB3 (or 3. . . .P—QR3; 4 B— R4, 4 Kt— 63) is that after 4 P— Q3 
Anderssen's key move of the attack adopted one move later against Morphy, who, as 
isual at the time, had played 3. . . .P — QR3, whereupon White retreated 4 B — R4) Black 
s compelled to play 4. . . .P — Q3, and if White then continue 5 P — 63, Black has de- 
prived himself of the resource of 4 P — KB4, which in our main variation, in Col. i, he 
nay successfully adopt, and thus foil the plan of White to keep up a retentive attack 
imilar to that obtained in modern variations of the Giuoco Piano. Compare Col. 3, 
»vhich is most in accordance with the style of attack adopted by the author against Black- 
Durne in the first game of the match in 1876. (See illustrative games.) 

The main difference after 3. . . .P — Q3; 4 P — 63, 4 P — B4, from the ordinary lines 
)f defence is that White will gain no benefit from the Giuoco Piano system of attack, for 
nstance, by 5 P — Q3, and the prospective open file for the Black KR after caStling, will 
nore than outweigh the little inconvenience of his KB's being confined. White is 
ilso unable to manoeuvre his QKt via Q2 and KB squares to K3, as in the leading varia- 
ions of the attack against other defences ; as, after Black has moved P — KB4, the first 
slayer has to look out for protection for his KP, which will be further attacked. This 
sort of attack we consider in this opening as well as in Philidor's Defence, the most con- 
genial to the principles of the game. 

In Cols. 4 and 5 we endeavor to demonstrate that an attack initiated by 7 P — Q4, 
was first adopted by the author in his match against Zukertort, can be repelled 
*vith advantage for the second player, should White try to play for more than an even 
*ame. The queried moves in those columns, viz., Whites, nth, i2th, and 
i3th moves, in column 4, and White's i3th and i4th moves, in column 5, are, we 
Believe, plausible and not easily answered ; wherefore we have selected them as speci- 
nens of efforts on the part of White to gain an early superiority. But, we believe, after 
he key moves of Black's counter-attack in Col. C, namely 7. . .PXP, and 8. . .P — Q4, 
he defence gets at least an even game against all other lines of play that are at White's 
lisposal. In Col. 6 we show the result of neglecting the counter-attack of 7. . . .PXP, and 
idopting an unnecessary development move instead. Little difference as it would seem 

2 THE RUY LOPEZ. 

to make, we think that White, after 7. . . .B — Kt 2, obtains the superior game by getting 
rid of his KKt at 1*3 and exchanging it for an adverse piece, thus liberating his pawns 
on that wing for an ultimate attack. 

Col. 7 disposes, we believe, of Mortimer's defence in a novel but effective manner. 

In Col. 8 we deal with a variation played by Rosenthal against the author in the 
London Congress of 1883 (see illustrative games), but we find no alteration necessary in 
the line of play adopted by White, who ought to maintain the pawn gained. 

Col. 9 represents the play of both sides in this opening, as authorized and practised 
by the best musters thirty \t-ars ago. We have in the main variation omitted the moves 
P — KR3 on each side as absolutely useless. If White does not play that move, it would 
be, of course, all the more a waste of time for Black to attempt it. 

Col. 10 is a defence tried by Paulsen, and Col. n deals with the variation for the 
second player, which we ourselves experimented upon in the London Tournament. Col. 
1 2 shows a defence of our own, which, after some trials in Vienna and in America, we 
hoped to establish as the sound one; but, although against the ordinary line of attack 
we think the game can be made even, we find we cannot recommend the same, on the 
grounds pointed out in our note No. 29. 

In Col. 13 we endeavor to demolish an attack which we ourselves favored in our 
last match with Zukertort, and it is especially the move 7 P — Q4 which we now object 
to, on the ground that Black, by being enabled to exchange his KP, obtains liberty to 
advance P — Q4. 

In Col. 14 we present an old variation favored by Anderssen as first player, and suc- 
cessfully adopted against various opponents until he played it against the author in the 
Vienna Tournament of 1873. The last six moves of Black were systematically made on 
the principle that, as there was no immediate King's side attack to be feared, Black was 
not bound to hurry with the development of his pieces, and especially Black's I2th move 
was considered a venture, according to the old notions of rapidly bringing out the pieces. 
The object of this move was, however, to bring that Kt into action -at Q5 by way of K2 
and QB3, and this manoeuvre has since been fully approved of by analysts and adopted 
in practice by the strongest players, though an opportunity to play this defence rarely oc- 
curs, as the strongest players agree now, in consequence of the example of this game, 
that 6 BXKt is disadvantageous for White. 

Columns 15 to 18 inclusive, might occur by a transposition of moves in the Four 
Knights' Game. We do not think much of the attack by 5 QKt — 63 ; for even when 
Black in answer replies 5. . . B — 64, a move which brings him into great difficulties (see 
Col. 1 7), we find no more than an even game at the utmost in the, end of that variation. 
The fact that White has advanced the KBP, and has left several points of entrance forj 
Black in the centre, will tell against him in the ending, and he has no chance of effect-| 
ing any great improvement in the middle game. We very slightly prefer Black's game! 
for practical purposes, though theoretically we can make it no more than even. Col. 18. 
represents an attack which tends to combine a sort of Four Knights' Game witn 
the Ruy Lopez. It was for a short time in favor with first-class players, until Zukertorf 
disproved it in practice with the line of play which we quote. 

In Col. 19 the attack pursues the plan of allowing the KPto be taken in order to re-j 
cover the P later on. Though White accomplishes that object, his KB becomes blockedj 
up, and Black forms a majority of pawns on the Q wing, which we believe in the end! 
ought to be in his favor. In the two next columns the Q P is given up temporarily,] 
but though the balance of material is restored by force, White can obtain no more than! 
an even game; and if, as in Col. 21, he exchange one of his Bishops for a Kt, and); 
allows Black to free his KB file after castling, the defence gets a slight advantage. 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 3 

In Col. 22 the move 5 Q — K2, if defended by 5. . .P — Q3, shows a loss of time for 
White if the attack proceed on the Giuoco Piano principle, and we do not think that any 
other line of attack is more promising. 

In Cols. 23 and 24 defences which have been hitherto recommended and practised 
by masters are, we believe, shown to be inferior. 

Cols. 25 to 30 deal with the defence of the Berlin school, 3. . .Kt — KB3 before 
playing P — QR3, or without the latter recourse altogether. Excepting in the middle 
columns, which are given as examples of how to utilize a weak move on the part of the 
defence, the first player does not gain any perceptible advantage in position. 

Cols 31 to 36 inclusive, deal with Bird's defence 3. . .Kt — Q5, of which we cannot 
give a good account. There are some odd continuations which Mr. Bird played 
in connection with his favorite defence ; but though he has played them with great skill, 
and sometimes with success, it does not alter the principle that Black cannot afford to 
allow one of his centre pawns to be doubled. All our examples are treated in quite a 
novel manner from some point more or less early. 

Cols. 37 to 42 treat the unusual defences 3. . .Kt — K2, or 3. . .P — KKt 3, and fin- 
ally 3. . .P — KB4. Against the two first-named moves, the Giuoco Piano attack by 4 P — 
QB3 is, as usual in this opening, the most effective one. For neither of these variations 
s the more direct attack of 4 P — Q 4 of much use, as we show in either our tables or 
notes. Against 3. . . P — KB4 we give an attempt at a direct King's side attack based on a 
sacrifice of two pawns, which we believe ought to be successful on account of the near 
analogy of the position to the Danish Gambit. But the line of play indicated in our 
notes, viz., playing the QKt via Q2 to Kt 3, in order to recover the P, is quite good 
enough. As the defence 3. . . P — KB4 is very rarely adopted, we have not given it much 
analysis. 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

,P-K4 ?KKt-B3 

IP— K4 "QKt— 63 

Third Defence . ...... 3p _ 

Seventh Defence 3 

Cols. I and 2. 

I — — ; Cols. 3 to 8. 

[ J Cols. 25 to 29. 

[t2l - ; Col. 30. 

Cols. 9 to 24. 

Cols. 31 to 36. 

Cols. 37 to 38. 

Cols. 39 to 40. 

Col. 41. 

Col. 42. 

P-K4 

P— K4 

2 

P— Q3 ! 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

?KKt-B3 
"QKt— B3 

3 4 

3xt-B3 

B-Kts 

6 

rP~Q4 
°BPXP 

KtxP 

P-Q4 

OPXP 

ch. 

8 
9 

10 

n 

13 
14 

15 
16 

'K— K2 

B— Kt5 ch. 

Kt— 63 
KBxKt 

B— Q2 

nP-Q5 
°QKt— K2 

nQKt— Q2 
Dp-KKt3 

'B— Kt2 7~ 
0Kt-B sq. 

PXP 

ch. 

PXB 
PXP 

Q-Q4 
B— R4 

UQXB 

inKt- 

l«- 

O— O 

Kt— K3+ 8 

UP-Q4! 

npXP 
"KtxP 

nQ~Kt3 

' B— Kt2 ? 
jPXP 

P-KS 

«kt— KS 

nQ~Kt3 ' 

KtxP 
KtxKt 

11 

PxKt 12 

Kt— B3 
B-Kts- 4 

B-B4? 

5— R3+ D2 ilQ— O— O— 

ch. 

19K-Qsg.? , 
i"Kt— KKts J 

•1 QR— Ksq-? D 4 gKtXKt? 
1 UKTvpTvi 1 UKt— B^ 

BxBch. 10 14P-B3 

llp_QR4 

— K2 

14 

KtXP ch. 
K— B2 

QXR 

and wins. 9 

QKt-B sq. 

AUB-KS 

. .QxKtP? 
14QR_Ktsq. 

Q-R6 

14 

P— KKt4+13 

Column 

Move II 

BLACK. 

.B— R3. 

Column 4. Move 12 R — K 

BLACK. 

"1 

M 

j^l 

ps^ ^ 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

T11K RIJY LOl'l./. 

Col. i.— 4 P— Q4, 4PXP, 5 QXP (or, 5 KtxP, 5 B— Q2 ; even game,) leads to a variation of 
Philidor's defence, for which compare Col. 2, p. 2. Or if 4 BxKt. ch., 4 PxB ; See Illustrative 
game between Anderssen and Suhle, and our comments. 

Col. i . — The same position may be arrived at in the Ponziani. The variation also resembles one aris- 
ing from a variation in the Hamppe or Vienna opening, the only difference being that White has 
already played P — QB3, and cannot bring his Kt — QB3- As will be seen, this contributes strongly 
to his having the disadvantage, for the most likely continuation is as follows : — 12 P — QB4, (If 12 
Q— Kts, 12 K— K3 ; 13 PxKt, 13 QxQ ; 14 BxQ, 14 PXP+) 12. .. .Q— R4 «*•; 13 P— Kt4, 
(If 13 Kt— 63, 13 K— K3 and wins.), 13. .. .QxP ch., 14 Kt— O.2, I4R— Q sq.; 15 PxKt ch., 15 K 
— K3 + . If ii ... .K— K3 ; 12 BxKt, 12 PxB; 13 Q— K8 ch., draws at least. 

3. Col. 2.— Or 7 KtXP, 7 B— Q2, even game. 

4. Col. 2.— If ii KKt— Kts, ii P— KR3 ; 12 Kt— K6, 12 QKtXP ; 13 KtxB, 13 Q— K2 ch. ! + 

5. Col. 3. — A move recommended and adopted by Herr Englischof Vienna. 

6. Col. 3. — We consider this stronger now than 7 P — Q4. White's object ought to be to avoid the 

exchange of his KB for an ultimate attack at Kt 3 or QB2, and first of all to manoeuvre his Kt via B 
sq. to K3. He will have his minor pieces available on both wings, while Black's KB is confined on 
the K's side and of little use. 

7. Col. 3. — Black might now try to get rid of his useless B by 7 B— R3, but after 8 Kt — B sq., 8 

B+B; 9 QxB, Black's K side remains weak. 

8. Col. 3. — White has a little advantage on the grounds stated in Note 6. 

. 9. Col. 4.— For clearly 15 BxPch. is of no use, and in reply to 15 KtXQ, 15 KtXP ch. follows with 

the exchange ahead. 

10. Col. 5.— Or, ii B— K2, ii KtxKt; 12 BxKt, 12 P— QR4, even game, for if 13 P— QR3, 13 P— 
QR5, etc. 

11. Col. 6.— If 8....PXP; 9 BxKt, 9 BxB; 10 KtXP; 10 BxP; ii Q— R4 ch., ii 6—63; 12 KtX 

B, 12 Q— Q2; 13 Kt— B4, 13 QxKt; 14 QXQ ch., I4PXQ; 15 Kt— RS + . 

12. Col. 6.— Best. For if ii BxB; 12 KtxBP, 12 KxKt; 13 Q— Kt3 ch. and wins. 

13. Col. 6. — White has a strong attack against the K's side. See Illustrative Game. 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

jP— K4 oKKt— B3 ofi- 

7 

0 

AP— K4 

8 

^QKt— 63 U 

9 10 11 

q 

12 

"Kt— 63 

,P-Q3 

ji 

"P— QR3 2O 
,B-R4 21 J | t 

*Kt-K2? 
_B— QB4! 

*B— 64? 
14 -P— 83 17 

rP~Q3 

•*P— QKt4 24 tP— KKt3 
-B— Kts -P— Q4 

•*KKt— K2 
rP-Q4 

30 

Kt-Kt5 

15 Og_K2 
pO-0 

OB— B4 

OB— Kt2 5pxp 
pO— O 25 fiKtxP 

OpxP 

bp_Q4 
7PXP 

Oo-o 

6p-QKt4 
7B— B2 

OP— KKt3 26 "B— Kt2 
P-Q3 7KtXKt 

KtxKt 

7QxKt 

'KtXP 

'B— Kts 18 

/P-Q4 
n?XP 

/B— Kt2 27 'KtPxKt 
Kt-Kts fiO-0 

'P— QKt4 

gKtXB 

qKtxP 

"KtxP 
Q0— 0 22 

"Kt— R3 °Kt— K2 
nP— 063 D nP— QB3 

8p_Q3 

31 

nKt-B3 

. ^KtxQBP 

"O— O 23 

JO— O 28 "O— O 
nP-KB4+ 1 nB-K3+ D 

SB-KS 

32 

.B-Q2 + 

16 !UQXP 
HKt-Kt4 

KtxKt 

29 

1 

iAP— 64 
•?Kt-B2+ 19, 

llB-Q3 

IL 

lxPch.+ 

Column 10. Move 9. P — QB3. 

BLACK. 

Column n. Move 10. B — Kj. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

Till-: KUV LOPEZ. 9 

14. Col. 7.— White dare not capture the P, on account of 5 P— QBj followed by <t>-K4 ch., win- 

ning a piece. But he obtains, by the move we recommend, an attack like that in the Two 
Knights' Defence, with the advantage of a move ahead. 

15. Col. 7.— Or 5 .... P-B3 ; 6 Kt-B3, 6 Kt-Kt 3 ; 7 P-KR4, 7 P— KR4 ; 8 P— 0.4, 8 B -Kts ; 9 P 

XP, 9KtXP; 10 Q— Q4+. 

16. Col. 7.— If 10. . . .Kt— Qs; n Q— RS ch., II K— Q2; 12 KtXKt, 12 PxKt; 13 BxP, 13 KtxP ch.; 

14 K— Qsq., HKtxR; 15 Q— 65 ch., 15 K— Q3; 16 Q— K6ch., 16 K— B4; 17 B-K3 ch., 17 K— 
Kt4; (or 17. . . .K— Kt 5; 18 B— O.2 ch., 18 K— 64; igExP, and wins) 18 B— 64 ch., 18 K— RS; 

(or— 18 K— R4; 19 B— Q2 ch., 196— Kt 5; 20 QxP ch., and wins) 19 QxP, 19?— B3; 20 

P— Kt3 ch., 20 K— Kt5; 21 B— Q2 ch., 21 K— R6; 22 B— B sq. ch., 22 K— Kt 5; 23 P— R3 Mate. 

Col. 8. — It would not do to play 5 BxKt, 5 QPxB; 6 KtxP, on account of 6 Q — Q5 (better 

than 6.... BXP ch.); 7 B— K3, 7 QxKt; 8 P— 0.4, 8 QxKP; 9 PxB, gQxKtP; with a pawn 
ahead and a fine attack. 

Col. 8.— Black would get a bad game after 17 PxP; 18 PxP, 18 B— Kt3; 19 P— KS, 19 Kt— 

Q4 (or, 19 Kt— KS; 20 P— Q 5 etc.) 20 Kt— 63, 20 KtXKt; 21 PxKt, threatening B— Kt5, etc. 

Col. 8. — For continuation see illustrative game between the author and Mr. Rosenthal. 

Col. 9. — On principle this ought to be disadvantageous, as it drives the B where he wants to go. 

21. Col. 9.— White would gain nothing by 4 BxKt, 4 QPXB; 5 KtxP, 5 Q— Q.5, etc. 

22. Col. 9. — Up to this point the moves are from two match games between Anderssen (White) and 
Morphy (Black). The former played here 9 P — KR3, and the latter also replied 9 P— KR3- We 
consider both these moves useless. 

23. Col 9.— If 9 QB— Kt5; 10 P— KR3, 10 BxKt; (or 10 B— R4; 11 P— KKt 4, u B— KKt3; 

12 R— K sq. + ) II QxB, ii O — O; 12 Kt — Q2, with the better game. 

Col. 10. — A defence undertaken by Paulsen against Anderssen. 

Col. io.— If 6 P— Q4, 6 KtxP; 7 KtXKt, (or, 7 KtxP, 7 KtxB; 8 RPxKt, 8 Q— K2+) 7 PxKt; 
8 QxP, 8 P— QB4; 9 Q— K$ ch., 9 Q— K2; io.QxQ ch., io KtxQ +. 

Col. io.— Or, 6 B— 64, 7 KtxP, etc.:— Or, 6 Kt— 63; 7 Kt— Kt 5, etc. 

Col. io.— If 7. . . .P— KR3; 8 P-QR4, 8 Kt— B3; 9 Q— K2+. 
Col. io.— Or, 9 P— KB3; io Kt— KR3, etc. 

29. Col. ii.— Should Black try to relieve his KKt by io P— KB4; the best answer is 11 P— 63, 

for if Black exchange Pawns and Rooks the game is still more in White's favor. 

Col. 12. — This attack has been invariably played by the opponents of the author, who (i. e., the 
author), for a long time favored the defence initiated by the previous move, viz., 4. . . .KKt — K2. 
But we believe that White will get the best of the position by managing the attack on the Giuoco 
Piano principle, which we recommend in all variations in which Black's KB is confined. He ought 
to proceed with 5 P— 63, 5 P— Oj; 6 P— O.4, 6 B— O.2; 7 B— B2, etc. 

Col. 12.— Threatening to win a piece by P — 64, followed by P— 65. 

Col. 12.— Much better than 9 P — QB4, which leaves the QP weak. 

*3 

10 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

P-K4 

n 

KKt— 63 

qB— Kt5 JB-R4 

IP— K/j. 

13 

rP — Q.3 

14 

RBxKt ch. 

QKt— 63 

15 

cKt-B3 37 

JP-QR3 

16 

0-0 

**Kt- 

17 

18 

vp — Q3 

&B-K2 
pB— Kt3 38 

B— B4 40 
RKtXP 

B— Kt5 
pO-0 

"P— KKt3 33 
1?P-Q4? 34 

P-KR3 

p-S 

bo-o 

UKtxKt 41 
I/P-Q4 

"0-0 
7Kt-Q5 

'P— QKt4 
flB-B2 

'P— Kt3 
nKt-B3 

?B-Kt5 
pB— K3 

^QPXB 
pKtxP 

/B— Q3 42 

fio— o 

'B— B4 

UPXP 35 

qPxP 

UP— B4 
qB-K3 

°BxKt 

°KtxP 
QKtxKt 

QP-B4 

"QKtxP 
QKKtxKt 

nP— K5 

OR— QKt sq. 
. nP— QKt3 

PXP 

mBxP 

, pKtxKBP 

"Kt— 65 ! 

inp"K5 

"KtxKt 
. nKt-B5 44 

0—0- 

11>B— KKt2 

Qxtt 

HR-Ksq. D 

1UB-K2 

llJKt K2 
. . B— KKt5 

Up— KR3 
, 9P— KKt4 

Ho— O 39 

11 

HBXP 

Up— KB3 

. 9B— Kt3 ch. 

l"Kt— Ktsq. 

o— o— o 

l"Kt— Q2— D 
. 0P— QB3— 

Q-Q3- 

1"K— Rsq. 
-1 nB— K3 

1 UTTf TT^ 

XVL JV^ 

..Kt-K, 

10 

lup_KKt3— 43 

10p_Q3 D 45 

Column 1 6. Move n. 

BLACK. 

....R— Ksq. 

Column 18. Move 13 P — Oj. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

T11K KUV LOPEZ. n 

Col. 13.— In the match by correspondence between Paris and Vienna, the latter played here, 6 

B— K2; and the game continued 7 QKt— Q2, 7 O— O; 8 Kt— B sq., 8 Kt— Q2; 9 B—Kj, 9 P— 
64; 10 PxP, 10 RXP; ii B— Kt 3 ch., n K— R sq.; 12 P— KR4- We consider this defence as 

good as any other in this opening, but we would decidedly give the preference to 8 Kt— K sq.; 

instead of 8 Kt— Q2. 

Col. 13.— As usual, we prefer QKt— Q2, followed by Kt— B sq. and Kt— K3. 

Col. 13. — In the London tournament (1883) occurred here between the author (White) and Mr. 
Zukcrtort, 8....QB— Kt2; 9 P— Q5, 9 Kt— K2; 10 P— QR4, 10 PxP; " BxP ch., u Kt— Q2; 
12 P — KR4. Though White ultimately lost the game by weak play, we have no doubt that he has 
the superior position at this juncture, owing to the weakness of Black's QRP and QBP. 

36. Col. 14.— Black threatens now Kt — Q5, and has altogether the superior game. The above moves 
occurred first in a game between Prof. Anderssen (White) and the author in the Vienna tournament 
of 1873. 

Col. 15. — This variation is arrived at by a transposition of moves in the Four Knights' Game. 

Col. 15.— Some authors recommend 6 P— Q3, 6 P— QKt4; 7 B— Kt3, 7 P— Q3; 8 P— KR3? We 
think there is no objection to this line of play, excepting that we would substitute 8 Kt — K2. The 
move we advocate is necessary, if White wants to open the game by P — Q4. He cannot well do so 
at present, for after 6 P— Q4, 6 PxP; 7 KtxP, 7 KtxKt; 8 QxKt, 8 P— QKt4, Black will win a 
piece, since if 9 B— Kt3, 9 P— QB4, followed by P— 65, etc. 

Col. 15.— If n ... .P— 64 ; 12 Q— 64, 12 O— O ; 13 P— QR4, etc. 

40. Col. 17. — A dangerous move to deal with in practical play. 

41. Col. 17.— If 6. . . .BxP ch. ; 7 KxB, 7 KtxKt ; 8 P— Q4, 8 KKt— Kt5 ch. ; (or 8. . . .QKt— Kt$ 

ch.; 9K— Ktsq.,9?— QKt4; ioB— Kt3, 10 P— Q3 ; u P— KR3 + ), 9 K— Kt sq., 9 Q— RS ; 
10 P— KKt3, 10 Q— 63; ii Q— K2, n Kt— B6 ch.; (or n. , . ,Q— QKt3 ; 12 K— Kt2) 12 K— 
Kt2, i2QKtxRP; 13 Kt— Q5 + . 

42. Col. 17.— Better than 7. . . .B— Kt$ ; 8 PxKt, 8 KtX? ; 9 Q— Q4, 9 KtxKt ; 10 PxKt, 10 B— K 
2 ; u Q— KKt4+, for if Black castle, there follows B— R6, etc. 

43. Col. 17.— Not 13 P— QKt 4; to which White would effectually reply 14 P— QR4- Now the 

positions are even, although by any other move than 9 Kt— 65, Black gets the worst of the 

game, as proved in an analysis by Prof. Berger, which we see quoted in Salvioli's work, and which 
we believe appeared first in the Schachzeitung. 

44. Col. 18.— If 10 Kt— Kt3, 10 Kt— Kt3 ; ii KtxB, n P— Q3+ 

45. Col. 18.— This variation occurred between Blackburne (White) and Zukertort in the Paris tourna- 
ment of 1878- 

12 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

.P— K^ 

KKt-B3 

QB-Kt5 .B-R4 

IP— K4 

19 

-0— O 

"QKt— B3 

20 21 

rP-Q4 

UP— QR3 ^Kt-B3 

22 23 24 

Q-K2 

RP-Q4 

Dpxp 54 
0-0 

P-Ks 

Op_Q3 Op_ QKt4 

Op— QKt4 46 
,_B— Kt3 47 

OB— K2 

Ol/'* ~lf r 

vivt — -iv^ 

7o-o 

Op— KKt3 OB— Kt2 59 OB— K2? 
-P— QB3 i7p— Q3 i7p— QR4 

'P— Q4! 
pPXP 48 

'Kt-K5 
pKtxP 

'Kt— B4! 
pBxKt 

/B-Kt2 'B-B4 'P-Kt5 61 
0QKt-Q2 RP-B3 np~Q4 

"Kt-K2! 49 
QR— K sq. 5O 

"O— 0! 55 
Kt-B5 

OQPXB 

QKtxP 

0O— O °O— O °PXP 62 

«KKt-QB4 51 

nK*-Q4 

OP-Q4! 
.0PXP in passing. 

, .BxKt— 56 

"B— K2 
4 nQKt-B3 

«R— Ksq=58 "P— Q3 "Kt— Kt5 
4 nKt-R4+6O D ,, nQ— K4+ D 

OKI— K3 52 • 

1U0-0 

10 10 

1P_QB4+ 53 I 

1 IP— KB3 
1?PX? 

<0Q-K2 

— Kt3 57 

Column 23. Move 10 Kt — R4. 

BLACK. 

Column 24. Move 10 Q— K4. 

BLACK. 

• 

m%""* w/m w/m f % 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

THE KUY LUPLZ. 13 

Col. 19.— If 6. . . .PXP; 7 R— K sq., 7 P— KB4; (7. . . .P— Q4 is obviously worse, as White equally 
replies KtxP, and must win a piece ultimately by P— KB3) 8 KtXP, 8 KtXKt; 9 QxKt-f . Sal- 
violi also points out the main play of the following attack, if in lieu of the text move Black play 6 
. . . .P— Q4; ? viz.: 7 KtXP, 7 B— Q2; 8 KtxP, 8 KxKt; 9 Q— RS ch., 9 K-Ky, 10 Kt-B3, 10 
KtXKt; (or 10. . . .Kt— K2; 11 KtxKt, n BxB;— if PxKt thevanswer B— Ktj ch., followed by 
Q— 65 ch. or Kt5 ch. mates— 12 Kt— B$ ch., 12 K— Q3; 13 KtXP ch. and wins) n PxKt, n P— 
KKt3; 12 R— K sq. ch., 12 K— 62; (or 12. . . .K— 83; 13 QxQP, etc.); I3QXQP ch., 13 K— Kt2; 
14 QB— KtS, 14 Q— B sq.!; 15 B— QKt3, 15 B— K sq.; 16 R— K7 ch. and wins. 

Col. 19.— Should White attempt 7 KtxP, the best answer is 7. . . .KtXKt (not 7. . . .PxB; 8 KtX 

Kt followed by R— K sq. + ) 8 PxKt, 8 Kt— 64; 9 B— Kt3, 9 KtxB; 10 RPxKt, 10 B— Kt2, etc. 

,> 
Col. .19 — Tschigorin played here P— QR4 against Rosenthal in the London tournament. 

Col. 19. — We consider this move, which was first adopted by Anderssen, as best, for it removes a 
loose piece into security and opens the advance of P — QB3, (eventually, but only in rare cases, P — 

QB4 might be ventured for Black. If 8 B— K3; Salvioli rightly recommends 9 P — 963, and 

we find that this strong move might lead to the following continuation, 9. . . .B — K2; 10 B — 62, 10 
Kt-B4; n Kt— Q4, 11 KtXP;? 12 P— KB4, 12 Kt— 65; 13 Kt— B6, 13 Q— Q3; 14 KtxB, 14 K 
XKt; 15 P— 65, 15 B— B sq. best; 16 P— QKt3, 16 Kt— Kt3; 17 Q— Q4, 17 P— KB3; 18 P— QR4, 
18 PXP; 19 B— QR3, 19 QKt— Q2; 20 P— QKt4, 20 Kt— Kt2; 21 R— K sq. ch., 21 K— Q sq,; 22 
R — K6 and wins. 

Col. 19.— Threatening RxKt, followed by BX? ch., and much stronger, we think, than B— K3. 
If9Kt— Kts, 9 KtXKt; 10 BxKt, loP— QB3; n P— QR4, " B— KS; 12 PxP, 12 RPxP; 13 
RXR, 13 QXR; 14 P— QB3, 14 P— KR3, we slightly prefer Black. 

Col. 19. — None of the moves of the B are satisfactory in our opinion, as the B not only ought to be 
reserved, but ought to be kept in communication with both wings. If, for instance, 9. . . .B — Kt5; 
10 P— KR3, 10 B— R4; (10 BxKt; 11 QxB is obviously worse for Black) 11 P— KKt4, fol- 
lowed by Kt— R4 and P— KB4. 

Col. 19. — We consider this better than KtxB. 
Col. 19.— Followed by Kt— QB2 and B— K3. 

Col. 20.— 5 QKtxP is obviously disadvantageous, as White replies 6 KtXKt,6 PxKt; 7 P— KS, 

7 Kt— KS; 8 QXP, 8 Kt— 64; 9 B— Kt3, 9 KtxB; 10 RPxKt, 10 B— K2; u 6—64 with the 
superior game. 

Col. 20. — 7. . . .KtXKt leads by a transposition of moves to the position in our last note. If 7. ... 
Kt— 64; 8 Kt— 65, 8 O— O!; (or 8. . . .KtxB?; 9 KtXP ch., 9 K— B sq.; 10 B— R6, 10 K— Kt 

sq.; ii Kt— 65, n KtxKP; 12 R— K sq., 12 P— Q3; (or 12 P— KB3; 13 Q— Q5 ch. + ) 13 R 

XKt and wins) 9 BxKt, 9 KtPxB; 10 KtxB ch., 10 QxKt; u P— KB4. White has slightly 
the better game. 

Col. 20. — Or ii PxB, ii QKtXP, with the superior development. 

57. Col. 21.— This variation is from Salvioli, with whom we agree that the attack has passed over to 
Black's side. 

58. Col. 22.— White having moved 5Q— K2 was a loss of time, and Black's last move neutralizes the 
attack, for he threatens now P — Q4, etc. 

Col. 23.— To provide against the adverse advance of P— QR4. If 6 6—64; 7 P— QR4, 7 QR 

— Kt sq.; 8 PxP, 8 PxP; 9 QKt— 63, 9 P-Q3; 10 QKtxP, 10 QB— KKt$; ii B— R4+. 

Col. 23. — Black has a weak spot at KB4. B— B sq. is now of little use, as White answers K— R 
sq., followed by P— KKt3 and P— KB4. And if 10. . . .P— KKt3; u B— R6, u R— Ksq.; 12 
P— KKt3, I2 QKt— R4; 13 B— B2, 13 P— QKt5; 14 Kt— Q2, with the superior game. 

61. Col. 24.— Or 7 .... QR— Kt sq. ; 8 PxP, 8 PxP ; 9 QKt— 63, 9 P— Kts ; Io Kt~ Q 5 + • 

62. Col. 24.— If 8 P— Q3J 9 Q— B4 and wins. 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

] 

25 

.o— o 

,P-K4 

9KKt— 63 QB— Kt5 

Lp-K4 

26 

"QKt— 63 

27 28 

.0-0 J0— 0 

"Kt— 63 

29 

D 

30 

^KtxP 63 

^B— B4 

-R-K sq. 

•*PxP 76 
,-O— O 

"B— K2 
Q-K2 

P— QR3 
pBxKt 

KtXP 

pKtXP 

"B— K2 ! 

bKt-Q3 

DQPXB 

,-R— Ksq. 66 

JA-t -^3 

"KtXKt 
7RxKt ch. 

OB— K2 : 

7BxKt 73 

"Kt— KS 

'KtPxB 64 

'Kt— Q3 67 
pKtXP 

'B— K2 
pPxP 

'B— K2 
jjKt-B3 

'QPXB 
pQ— K2 

'O— O 
pKt-B5 

Kt— Kt2 
nKt-Q4 

OB— K2 

Q-K2 

QR-Q sq. 

KtXB! 

QP-Q3 74 

Op-Q4 
QKtxB ch. 

"0-0 
1 nR-Q sq. 

"B— K3 

"Kt— Kt3 

"O — O 
, nKtxB ch. 

"Kt— B4 75 
,nKt-Q2 

r^B 

lUQ_Ksq. 65 
Kt-QB3- 

HQKt-Q2+68, 

.Kt-Q4 

lUK-Rsq. 
. . Q— RS 7O , 

MP-QB3 

PXKtB3 

llp_B3_ 

11 

llB-Kt2 

lip— KKt3 71- 
6919Q— R6 D, 

HR— Ksq. 
• .Kt-K4- 

HQ — Kt3 ch. 
-j nK~ R scl' 

12 

l^P— KB3 72 

K^BS 

1"K— Ktsq. 

UJX^ jA.t~p 

B-KtS- 

Col. 28. Move 12. Q— R6. 

BLACK. 

m • 

' • 

jm. * am. 

/,-. 

Col. 30. Move I4 P— Q5- 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

1 Hi: RUY LOPEZ. 

63. Col. 25.-Or4. . . .B-K2;? 5 Kt— B3, 5 P-Q3 ; 6 P-Q4, 6 PxP; 7 KtXP, 7 B— Q2 ; 8 KtxKt, 
8 PxKt ; 9 B-Q3+ 

64. Col. 25.- -Best. If 7. . . .QPxB ; 8 PxP, 8 Kt— B4 ; 9 R— Q Sq. 9 B— Q2 ; loP— K6, 

1 1 Kt — K5 and wins. 

65. Col. 25.— Of course necessary as White threatens KtxBP. 

Col. 26. — In the London tournament, 1883, Winawer continued here against Zukertort 7 Q — K2» 
7 QB— KB4 ; 8 P— KKt4, 8 B— Kt3 ; 9 P— KR4, 9Q— Q2 ; 10 KtXP, loQxKP ; u KKt— KB3, 
ii Q— Q2 ; 12 Kt— Kt5, 12 Q— K2 ; I3 R— Ksq., I3 O— O— O ! + 

Col. 26.— 7 B— B4 or P— KB4 are obviously bad on accourt of the reply KtxP; and if 

7. . . .Kt— B3 ; 8 KtXP, 8 B— K3 ; 9 Q— K2 (threatening KtxKBP) 9. . . .B— K2 ; 10 Kt— B3 + 

Col. 26. — The position is very similar to one in the I2th game of the last match between Steinitz and 
Zukertort, the difference being that White in the present variation is ahead in the development 
while Black has advanced P— QR3. 

Col. 27. — From a game between Winawer and Heilpern (Salvioli.) 

70. Col. 28.— Threatening QxRP ch. followed by R— R$ mate. 

71. Col. 28.— If ii P— KR3, 12 P— Q4, (threatening BxRP) 12 K— R2 ; I3 Kt— 65 and wins. 

72. Col. 28.— There is nothing better. If, for instance, 12 P— Q3 ; I3 R— R$, I3 PxR ; I4 Q— B6 

mate. 

73. Col. 29.— Or 7 B— Q3, 7 O— O ; 8 QKt— B3 ; 8 KtxKt, 9 RxKt, 9 P— QB3 ; 10 P— QKt3, 10 
Kt — K sq., even game. 

74. Col. 29.— Better, we think, than 9 P— Q4 which would give White an earlier opportunity of dissolv- 
ing his doubled P by P — QB4 after Kt— KB4 and O— O. 

75. Col. 29.— Necessary, for if 9 O— O ; 10 KtxKBP and wins. 

Col. 3o.— Black may also play 4. . . .QKtXP ; 5 KtxKt, 5 PxKt ; 6P— KS, 6P— QB3 ; 7 O— O, 
7 PXB ; 8B— Kt5, 8 B— K2 ; 9 PxKt, 9 BX? ; 10 R— K sq. ch., 10 K— B sq.; ii BxB, ii 
QXB ; 12 P-QB3, 12 P-Q4 ; 15 PxP, 13 B-K3 ; i4 Kt-B3, 14 P-QR3 ; 15 R-Ks, 15 R— 
Qsq.; i6Q— Kt3, (so far this variation was played between Morphy and Anderssen and the lat- 
ter now played 16 Q— K2) 16 P— KKt3 ; and we think Black ought to maintain the P with 

the superior game, for if^KtxP. *7 RXKt ; 18 RxR, 18 K— Kt2 ; 19 R— Q6, 19 BxQ, fol- 
lowed soon by R— QB sq. with the superior game. 

Col. 3o.— Continuation 15 BxKtf 15 QxB ; 16 QXP, 16 R— K sq.; 17 Q— 62, 176— Kt5 fol- 
lowed by B— R4, and QxP (Salvioli). 

1 6 

P-K4 

— K4 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

0KKt-B3 
-B3 

Kt— 

4 

31 

KtXKt , 
PXKt 

0-0 

32 

4B— R4 78 pB— B4 

DP__KU? 

t— B3 79 °P— Kt4? 
— Ksq. !80 nP— Q3 

' B— B4 81 ' Q— QB4 
nP-QKt4 

8*— -"O 
Kt-Q4 

B--Kt2_ 
"Kt— Kt3 

P-Q3 

uQ-Kt3 
qBxp ch. 

lOo-o 

nlvt Y 
P=(S 

13 

33 

34 

P— KR4 

UP— QB3 

7B-R4 

'Kt— B3 

Kt— Q4 84 UQ— R4 

35 

36 

— B4 

r 
" 

KtxKt ch. 
QXKt 

UQ_RS UQ_K2 

7Kt-Q2 7B-Kt5 7Q-Kt; 

'Kt— B3 'B-Kt5ch.?86 'O— O 

nKt-B3 nP-B3 nQxKP 

— K2 88 

"Kt— Kt3 

nQ-R5 ch. nKt-Q2+ 

iUP_Kt3 82lu~ 

HQ-Qs_ch_ 
AiK-Kt2 

passing. , »QXR 
*«Kt— K2 

Kt-K4+ 

15 

QXP+ 83 

85 

KB-B4 

luKt— Kt3 
MKt-Kts 

BXQ 

'p-Q4 r 

,O— O 83 

is. ch. °P— QR4 

BxB 

PXR queening. 
Q-QB5 D 

10 

PXP+ 

— B sq. 

12 

K-K2 wins 87 

14 

— KR3 

Kt-K4+ 

Column 55. Move n. Q — 65. 

BLACK. 

u 

& 

Column 36. Move 8 P— Q4. 

BLACK. 

i HP i 

* %*^ * 

«i m * 

&, 

T11K RUV LOl'EZ. 

'7 

Col. 31.— If6B— B4, 6 Kt— B3 ; 7 P— Q3, 7 P— Q4 ; 8PXP, 8 KtxP ; 9 Kt— Q2, 9 B-K2 ; 10 
Kt— K4, (or 10 Kt— 63, loKt— Kt3; etc.,) 10 O— O even game. 

Col. 31.— Or 6. . . .B— B4 ; 7 P-Qs, 7 Kt— K2 ; (7. . . .Kt— 83 ; 8 P— K$, 8 Kt-Q4 ; 9 B— Kt3 
leads to a similar line of play as in the main variation in favor of White) 8 Q — RS, 8 P— Q4 ; 9 
Kt-Q2+ 

Col. 31.— It would not be good play to advance P — K5 at once as Black after Kt — K5 threatens to 
attack the B by Kt— QB4. Nor is 7 P— QB3, 7 P— Q4 ; 8 P— KS, 8 Kt— Q2 ; 9 PXP,9 Q— Kt3; 
favorable for White who cannot support the QP by 10 Q— KKt4 on account of 10 KtxKP. 

Col. 31.— If 7....B— K2; 8 P— KS, 8 Kt— Q4 ; 9 Q— Kt4+ 

82. Col. 32.— There is nothing better. If 9 K— K2 ; loB— Kt5 ch., 10 K— Q3; (or 10 Kt— B 

3 ; n P— K5) II Q— 67 and wins ; for if 11 Kt— K2 ; 12 BxKt ch. and mates next move. 

I. Col. 32. — This variation occurred in the London tournament of 1883 between Englisch and 
Winower. 

Col. 33.— If 8. . . .Kt— Kt5 ; 9 P— KR3, 9 KtxKP ; jo R— K sq.+ 

Col. 34.— Or 9. . . .Kt— Kts ; 10 P— KR3, 10 Kt— R3 ; 11 P— QB3, 11 PxP ; 12 PXP-f 

86. Col. 35.— This loses soon by an ingenious process. But even after 7 Kt— 63 ; 8 BxKt, 8 

9 P— KB4, we prefer White. 

"87. Col. 35. — This variation is the invention of Mr. G. E. Barbier, and is given in Lipschutz' edition of 
Gossip's Manual. 

88. Col. 36. — The sacrifice of the P is not sound, but it leads to interesting play. 

>. Col. 36. — In a game between Mackenzie and Bird in the London tournament of 1883, the former 

played here 9 P— Q3 and the game proceeded 9 P— QR4; 10 O— O, 10 R— R3 ; n PxP, 

ii R— KKt3 with a strong attack. It should be noticed that if 9 PxP, gKt— 63 ; 10 BxKt ! 10 
PXB ; n O— O, n R— K sq.; 12 Q— Kt3, 12 B— R3; with an excellent attack. 

18 

37 

P-K4 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 
9KKt— B3 QB— Kts 

IP— K4 

38 

flQKt— 63 

39 

40 

U 

41 

42 

KKt— K2 9O 
iP— BS 91 

P— KKt3 

B— B4 

P-B4 

_KtxP 

rP-Q4 

^B-Kt2 f 4 
-P-Q4 . 

KW 

4g_K2 1OO 
-O— O 

5P~Ks 

pQ -K2 ! 92 

"B— Q2 
RKB— QB4 

RPXP R 

B— Kt2 

-B3 101 

Ro-o 

"Q-Q4 

-KtxKt 

-Kt— R4 95 
7B-Q3 

"QKt— K.2 97 & 

7°-° 7 

Kt— B3 

OB-Kt3 
,7P-QR4!D102 

°KKt— K2 
7P-B3 10! 

'KtxKt 93 
fiP— Q4 

'Kt— Kt3 

'P— QB3 'O— O 
.B-B4 gO-0 

'P-QR3 
B-B4 

'PXP 

nQ~Kt3 I 

OB— KB4 

Kt-Q2 

P-QKt4 

gPxP g 

Kt— K2 
B— B4 

"Kt-Qsq. 103 

QBXP 10< 

DO— o— o 

. pKt-B4 

"Kt— Kt2 
. nB— R6 

. pB— Kts ch- 4 n 

PXP 

"B— R2 
1f)Q-Kt3 

bp_QR3 10^ 
, .Kt— Kts 

. .B— KB4+ 

. ,P— QR4+ 96 

IUB_ Q2 98 lu 

BxBch. .. 

KtxKt 

lUpxP 
11PXP 

1"R— Esq. 
MB-B4+ 

11 

11 

Kt-K5+ 99 ,„ 

BxKt 

l^Kt— B2 

12Kt~B3 

11 

IL IL 
19 

P-B3- 

,nP-KS + 

— Kt3— 

Column 41. Move 7. P — QR4. 

BLACK. 

Column 42. Move 8. Q — Kt3- 
BLACK. 

WHITE. 

THE KUY LOPEZ. 

90 Col. 37.— A defense adopted by Steinitz against Blackburne in the Vienna tournament of 1873. 

91. Col. 37.— We consider this stronger than the continuation 4 P— Q4, 4 PxP ; 5 KtXP, 5 KtxKt ; 6 

QXKt, 6 Kt— B3 ; 7 Q— Q5, 7 B-K2 ; 8 Kt-B3, 8 O— O, (not8. . . .B-B3 as played by Steinitz 

in the above named game. (See illustrative games) 9 B — Qz, 9 Q— K sq. followed by P 03 with an 

even game. 

92. Col. 37.— The position would be identical with a variation in the Ponziani opening if now followed 
6 Q— K4, 6 Q— Q4; etc. 

93. Col. 37.— Or 7. . . .PxKt ; 8 B-B4, 8 Q— KB4 ; 9 O—O (equally good is 9 P— O4) followed by 

P— KB3 + 

94. Col. 37. — Of Course the Black dare not take the B on account of Kt — Q6 ch. 

95. Col. 38.— There is nothing better as White threatens Kt— Kt 5 or Q— QKt3- 

96. Col. 38. — Black's Kt is useless and his position is much cramped otherwise. If Black now play n 

P— QB4 ; White answers B— K3 followed by QKt— Q2. 

97. . Col. 39 — Mr.Barnes,the originator of this defence, justly gives this as Black's best move in his analy- 
sis published in Brentano's Chess Monthly . 

98. Col. 39.— Or 10 Kt— 63 ; n B,— K sq. ch., u Kt— K2 ; 12 B— Kt5, 12 P— 63 ; 13 QB— KB4+ 

99. Col. 39 — Black must exchange B for Kt and then he has an isolated P and a hole on his King side, 

while his Q side is also too much exposed to allow his castling on that side very comfortably. 

100. Col. 41.— If 4. . . .KKt— K2 ; 5 O—O, 5 P— Q4, ? 6 KtXP, 6 PxP ; 7 KtXP ! 7 KxKt ; 8 Q— 
R5 ch., 8 Kt — Kt3 ; 9 QXB+. This variation occurred between Golmayo and Steinitz in their last 
match game of 1888. 

101. Col. 41. — The combination of the last three moves of Black formed Boden's favorite defense. 

102. Col. 41.— After 7 Kt— RS, 7 Kt— Q sq.; 8 Kt— 64, 8 Kt— B2 ; 9 Kt— K3, 9 P— 63 ; io 
Kt— 65, io Q— B sq.; n B— Q3, n P— KKt3 ; followed by P— Q3 as played in a game between 
Morphy and Lowenthall, Black obtains an even game. The move in the text obviously threatens 
BxKt followed by P— R5« 

103. Col. 41.— If 8 P— Q3 ; 9 P— RS, 9 B— R2, ! (for if BXP, then obviously P— Q5 wins ; and if 

9 KtXP ; io BxKt, io RXB ; 11 RxKt, u BxR ; 12 Q— R4 ch. and wins). 

104. Col. 42.— Or 5 B— Kt5 ch. ; 6 P— 63, 6 PX? ; 7 O—O, 7 PX? ; 8 BxP with a strong attack, 

or else 6 QKt— Q2, followed by O—O and Kt— Kt3- 

105. Col. 42. — The safest plan for moderate players would be 7 QKt — Q2 followed by Kt— Kt3 and 
R — K sq., or QB — Kt5, recovering the P with the better game. 

106. Col. 42. — White's position is similar to that arising in the Danish Gambit, but we think it is more 
in White's favt&|}han the latter opening. 

107. Col. 42.— Or 9 Kt— R4 ; io Q— 63, or if 9 P— Q3; io R— Q sq., or Kt— Kts'. 

20 

P— K4 

1P-K4 

Game 1. Game 2, 

THE KUV LOPEZ. 
KKt-B3 

Game 3, 

Game 4. 

International Chess 

Magazine, 

March-April double 

number, 1888. 

J GOLMAYO 
* STEINITZ 

International Chess 
Magazine, 
May, 1888. 

PONCE 
STEINITZ, 

ANDERSSEN 
SUHLE. 

International Chess 

Magazine, 

April-May, double 

number, 1886. 

STEINITZ 
ZUKERTORT, 

UP-Q3 
jP-Q4 

— Q2 
-0 

'KKt— K2 — 
|P-QS 2 

;nftsq- 

P-KKt3 
|QB— KKt5_ 

'B— Kt2 

UP— KR3 

lfl»EK3 

KB4 3 

12 

Q— B sq. 4 
Kt-R3 

O— O 
Kt— K sq. 

J-QR4 

A^P— 65 
irB-Q« 

!OK— R2 

1 nKt-Kts 
IDKt— R3 
4 nQxRP 

— Kt3 

P-QKt4 8 
lOKKtxQP D 

QXKt(Q5)9 

10 

— R2 

11 

fltKR— B3 12 
QXKP 13 

^URrR7\— B2 

14 

R— B3 

White resigns. 

KtxP 

15 

'— KKt3 

'PXKt 
0KB— QB4 16 

Ofi-Kt2 

9^ 

'Kt— B3 

10 

R-Ksq. 17 

JO— O 

11— B3 

^R— 

18 

-K 

sq 

19 

12 

151= 

Kt sq. 2O 

>P— KR3 
rR~Q sq. 
Q— K2 
iBXKt 

QXBP 21 

loP— K6 D 

onK-Ktsg. 
««B— K4 22 

. 

QXQR 23 

K— Kt2 
Kt-R3 24 

yWhite resigns. 25 

BxKtch. 26 

'P— KB4 27 

,PXKP 

,Kt— 1 

'-Q4 
,P— K6 

Jfe 

10BXP 
11°B- 

ilR- 

Q-B3 
P-QB4 

28 

zsr 

PXP 

29 

PXP 
Q-RS 

P~B3 
KKtxKP 

PXKt 

17QXB 
1;QXB 
1fiKtxP 
A Op— 

P— B4? 3O 

19QZ^ 31 

KR-Ksg. 
L UK— B sq. 
?.KtxP 

QR-Qsg. 
6 /IB— B sq. 

0Q-QKt4? 32 
^UK-Ktsq.? 33 
njKt-K4 

Q-B4ch. 
tiUKt— 62 

9(yKt-Q6&ffins.D 
»' 34 

SJFT: 

B3 

6 

P— KKt3 
P-Q4 
B— Q2 

B— Kt2 

.PXP 

'QKtxP 
»KtxKt 

'PXKt 

|Q-K2 

'o— o 

P-B3 
•P— QR4 

13 

Kt— B sq. 

B-K3 

P— KKt4 35 

15 

sq. 

Q_Q2 

B-B2 

i "P— KR4 36 
j jjP— Kt5 37 

1'Kt— Ksq. 

18Q_B3 

P-QB4 38 
loKt— Q3 39 

4O 

R— Rsq. 41 

QR-Bsq. 

42 

28; 

29 

)— K sq. 
)— KB2 43 

Kt— B sq. 
B— Ktc 44 

ch. 

U^Kt— 

R2 

nqB-B4 
OOKt_ 

B3 45 

U^K — r$ sq 

35^= 

46 

Q2 47 

t— K2 48 

pxp 

49 

5O 

> 51 

QxR 

KS 
RP 

'Black resigns. 52 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 21 

Golmayo v. Steinitz. 

1. Game I. — 4 PxP is also good. It transposes the game into a position arming in I'hilidor's de- 

fence. Compare Col. 13 p. 148 

2. Game i. — Though this cramps the adverse pieces. Black obtains the initiative of an attack against 

the fixed KP. If 6 PxP,.6 PxP ; (not 6 KtXP ; on account of 7 KtXKt, and if 7 UxK ; 

8 KtxBP, 8 KxKt ; 9 Q-R5 ch. + ) 7 B--QB4, then 7. . . .Kt— B sq. with the view of an 

Kt— Q3 against the attack by Kt— Kt5 is the only correct play. 

3. Hlack has evidently the best of the game. For if White answer PxP the P retakes with a formid- 
able attack. 

4. Game i.— B— B sq. with the object of playing Kt— Q2 was, we believe, better. 

5. Game i. — The subsequent loose position of his .Q and B is fraught with danger. In such a blocked 

situation freedom for his Q to retreat to Q2, if necessary, should have been reserved and, B right 
back to B sq. was the proper move. 

6. Game i. — Necessary for his plan of breaking in at the igth move. 

7. Game i. — Whether or not he takes this P, Black obtains a strong attack by Kt — QB/j. 

8. Game I.— Black threatened KtxKP followed by BxKt, or vice versa. 

9. Game i— If 21 QxB, 21 P— 63 ; 22 Q— 84, 22 P— QKt4 wins the Q at once. 

10. Game i. — Much better anyhow was KtXB, though the Q could not be saved, even then, if Black 

replied R— K sq. 

11. Game i. — Not as correct as R — K sq., threatening R — K3, and leaving White without resource. 

12. Game I. — After 24. . . .R — Q sq., White has no other option than to give up the Q for two pieces, 
commencing with PXB. 

13. Game i. — PXB was still his best plan. 

14. Game i .—White has lost a Rook and yet cannot save the Q. If 27 P— KS, 27 R (R2)— K2 followed 

by R— K3, etc. 

Ponce v. Steinitz. 

15. Game 2. — This may be as safely played as KKt— K2, adopted in the previous game. 

16. Game 2.— If 8 Q— Q4, Black's best answer is-8 Q— 63. 

17. Game 2. — A premature preparation for the attack which leaves the R unprotected, and subsequently 

causes him embarrassment. It was for many purposes better to develop Kt — 63, followed by B — 
Q2 and the other R— K sq. 

18. Game 2. — Still Kt— 63 was preferable. 

Game 2.— u KtXP was tempting, for after 12 QxKt, 12 R— K sq. ; 13 BxP ch., 13 KxB ; 14 

Q — 63 ch., 14 K— Ktsq.; Black has the superiority of position. But if White answered 12 RxKt, 
we prefer his game after 12 P — Q4 ; 13 R — K sq., 13 PXB ; 14 Kt — R3, etc. 

, Game 2. — Always a considerable compensation for allowing his Pawns to be doubled in the present 
and similar openings. By compelling White to advance the QKtP, Black indirectly obtains 
greater command for his KB, which can be easily unmasked by removing the Kt that now blocks 
his action. 
Game 2. — Recovering his P but subjecting himself to an irresistible attack. 

. Game 2. — Threatening Q — R4 at once, or after BxP ch. 

. Game2.— If 24QXO, 24RxRch.; 25 Q— B sq., 25 BX? ch.; 26 K— B2, 26 B— Kt6ch.; and 
wins, for White must now capture the B, as he would be mated in two moves if he retreat K — 
Ktsq. 

. Game 2. — This loses at once, but even 26 Kt — Q2 would not have saved the game on account of 
26 B— 63 ; 27 R— K8, 27 BXP; 28 R— Q sq., 28 Q— QB7* and wins. 

. Game 2.— Obviously Black wins the Kt now by Q— 64 ch. ; or if 27 R— Q B sq., 27 B— Kt7. 

Anderssen v. Suhle. 

Game 3. — Anderssen generally adopted this early exchange, which, however, we do not approve of. 
Game 3. — A hazardous venture now that White will be soon ready to castle, and this alone makes 
the counter gambit more dangerous than in a similar position in the Philidor defence. 
Game 3. — A splendid move which gives him an irresistible attack, as it forces a break in Black's 
centre sooner or later. 

Game 3.— So far White has admirably conducted his attack, but we doubt the policy of the sacrifice 

(Continued on page 23.) 

22 

THE KUY LOPEZ. 

GAME No. I. 

Move 19 KtxQP 

BLACK— STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 2. 

Move 19 P— Kt6. 

BLACK— STEINITZ. 

WHITE — GOLMAYO. 

WHITE— PONCE. 

GAME No. 3. 

Move 27. Kt— Q6. 

BLACK — SUHLE. 

GAME NO. 4. 

Move 39. Q — 63. 

BLACK — ZUKERTORT. 

WHITE — ANDERSSEN. 

WHITE — STEINITZ. 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 23 

(Continued from page 2 1) . 

which this and the next hidden move initiated, and we would have preferred the plain Q — R5 which 

must have recovered the P with the superior game. 

Game 3.— This effort to prevent the ch. of the Kt much endangers his"game, which, we believe, was 

quite good enough after 18 Q— K2 ; 19 Kt— Q6 ch., 19 K— B sq. ; 20 KR— K sq., 20 B— K3 ; 

21 QR— Q sq., (after 21 RxB, 21 QxR; White has no discovered ch. with the Kt that would 

much imperil Black's game) 21 Kt— 62 ; 22 RxB, 22 QxR ; 23 Kt— 65 ch., 23 K— Kt sq.; 

and wins. For if now 24 Kt— K7 ch., Black answers QxKt, and if RxR ch. first, the Black 
King obviously gains a square for escape at 62 after retaking with the Kt. 

Game 3.— Again 19 Q — K2 was better and might have led to the following continuation : 20 

KR— K sq., 20 B— K3 ; 21 Q— Kt$ ch., (or 21 Kt— B6 ch., 21 K— B2 and wins) 21 K— 62 ; 22 
KtxP, 22 R— Q3, etc., with a defensible game. 

Game 3. — White could have won here at once by 23 Kt — K4, 23 Q — K2 ; (or 23. . . .BXR ; 24 RX 
R, and wins either by QxB ch., or R— Q8 ch. accordingly), 24 Kt— Q6, 24 Q — Q2; 25 Q— 64 ch., 
25 K— Kt sq. ; 26 Q— Kt5, 26 K— B sq. (We see nothing better, if QxKt the reply QxR ch. is suf- 
ficient to win. If 26 Kt— B2 ; 27 KtxKt, 27 QxR ; 28 Kt— R6 ch., and mates next move, other- 
wise White threatens R— K7) 27 KtxB, 27 QxR ; 28 Q— KB4 ch., 28 Kt— 62 ; 29 Q— Kt4 ch., 
29 K — Kt sq., (ifKtor R interposes he loses his Q) 30 Kt — K7 ch., 30 K — B sq.; 31 Kt — Kt6 
double ch., 31 K— Kt sq. ; 32 Q— B8 ch., 32 RxQ ; 33 Kt— K sq. mate. 

Game 3. — Salvioli justly points out that Black would have escaped now with a piece ahead by 
K— B2. 

Game 3.— If 27 P— KR3 ; 28 KtxKt, followed by Kt— Kt5 ch. Or if 27 QxKt ; 28 R— K8 

ch., followed by QXB and wins easily. 

Steinitz v. Zukertort. 

Game 4. — Compare Cols. 4, 5 and 6 of our tables for analysis up to this juncture. 

An excellent move which neutralizes the attack of White's Pawns. 

Game 4. — Certainly better than PxP in which case White could not make much use of the open KKt 

file, and Black after retaking with the Kt, might eventually enter at KB5. 

The key move to White's future operations is the centre. White can defend this P if attacked by 

the adverse Kt without being compelled to advance P — QKt3 in which case Black would obtain 

some counter attack by P — R5- 

Game 4.— If 19 R — Q5 ; 20 B— Q3, 20 Kt — Q3 ; 21 P — QKt3, threatening Kt— B2 or B— Kt2. 

Game 4. — The exchange is unfavorable for Black, and we should have preferred B — KB sq., as 
White's Kt could not do much harm for the present. 

Game 4.— The best defence for this P. If 23 P— QKt3 ; 24 R— QB sq. threatening R— B 6. 

Game 4. — An indifferent move which in noway alters the course of White's attack, but, practically, 

his line of defence would not have been much changed. If 26 P — QKt3 ; 27 B — 63, 27 Q— K2 

or K sq. ; 28 Q— KB2, etc. 

Game 4. — Besides attacking the QKtP, the move in the text prepares a strong onslaught with the 
KBP eventually. 

Game 4. — Useless. It would have been better to have exchanged Rooks at once. 
Game 4.— R — QB sq. was much better. For whether White answered P — Kt3 or B — Q5 Black 
could answer Kt— Kt4, and though in the latter case White would still have some attack by P — 
KB4, which, however, would not have been as potent, as he could not avoid the exchange of his 
powerfully posted QB. 

Game 4. — There is hardly any satisfactory defence against the attack here initiated. 
Game 4. -If 35. . . .Px? ; 36 QXBP, etc. 

Game 4.— No better was 36. .. .PxP ; 37 QXP, 37 QXQ J 38 RXQ, 38 Kt— Q sq. ; (or 38. . . .Kt 
— K2 ; 39 BX? ch., 39 K moves ; 40 R — 63, etc.,) 39 P — Kt6 and wins. 

Game 4.— P— B6 was threatened, and if 37. . . .B— B sq. ; 38 BX? ch., 38 KxB ; 39 PxP double 
ch., 39 K— K3 best ; 40 Q — 67 ch., 40 K — Q3 ; 41 R—Q sq., ch., and wins. 

Game 4.— In the hope that White might take the QKt— P to which Black would answer Kt— Q4 
threatening B — 64 ch. 

Game 4. —The decisive answer which prevents the entrance of Kt — Q4 and attacks the indefensible 
RP. 
Game 4. — RxB is the only defence and then would follow BxP ch. and P — B6 mate. - ~~ 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

Game 5. 

P— K4 

Game 6. 

London Tournament London Chess Con- 
1886. gress, 1883. 64 

t GUNSBERG STEINITZ ' 
SCHALLOPP. ROSENTHAL. 
53 

OKt— B3 ( 

,P-Q3 ' . 

^Kt— K2 54 *B— B4 65 

p_B3 

— K2 

-o 

66 

UKt-Kt3 

P-R4 , '55 
/P— KR4 

B-KKt5 

OQ-Kt3 
nQ-^2 

O-O 

'B-Kt3 

67 

— Q4 

xp 

56 

"KtPxB 

9£ 

68 

11 

PXP 

10 

Ktx 

Q3 

P 

QXP 

i>l IP— i 

O— O— O 1) * 1P_B4 
PXP ch. , 0Kt— B2 

13 

K— Kt sq. 57 i"B— R3 
0—0? 58. nR— Ksq. 

Q — ^3 Q — ^-5 

B— B2? 59.jP— B^ 

BxKt 

601^P-Q4 
,, rR— Kc; 

B-K5 ch. 

69 

PXP 

PXP 

171 

18 

Q3 

1^4 

KR— Ksq. 

iUKt— Q2 
jirP— KKt3 7O 

A'Q— R6 

.pR-Ksg. 71 
10 OR— Ksq. 

QR— 
B-K 

'PXP! D 61AUR— K3 
|R-QBsq.62onKt-B3 

63 

Kt— B3 
Kt-Kt4 

Kt— R3 

— Ksq. 

KKt-B3 
uQKt — B3 

Game 7. 

International Chess 
Magazine, 
ch, 1885. 

nnR-Ksq. 
n i Resigns. 

P-QKt4 

yJVJa, 
Mar 
QT7T 
| 

3 

SELLMAN 
STEINITZ. 

*KKt — K2 

rP-Q4 

°PXP 

nKtxP 

°KtxKt 

nQXKt 

-QB 

3 80 

B— K3 
B-B4 

81 

Kt— R4 

12 

82 

Kt— B5 
,Q— B sq. 

'B— K2 

ie 

17 

'Kt-Kt3 
•P-K5 84 

'P— Q4 85 

Q-K3 

P— KKH 86 

B-Kt3 
P-QB4 

87 

19^ 

O-Q3 

XKBP 
BXP 

Kt— Q4 
B— R6 

89 

nnB— Kt7 
Game 6-Cont'd. 22^ 

90 

I 

( 

Game 8. 

London Chess Con- 
gress, 1883. 

TSCHIGORIN 
ZUKERTORT. 

"Kt— B3 
.0-0 

rP-Q4 

OB— K2 

Kt-Q3 

99 

•OPXB 

RPXP 

Op— B3 

1OO 

101 

"BXP 

1B2=5l 
l"o-o 

LKt— 62 1O2 
)Q-K2 
JP— KB4 
,Kt— Kt3 

ItP— K5 

KKt-Q4 10_3 
1&P-B6 

Q— Kts 104 

KR-Q'sg. 
1/B-R3 

KtxP 

R-Q7 

106 

t— R6ch. 

74, 

t— 65 

RXKt 

75 
76 

Game 7— Cont'd. 2 2 

— K3 

77 

Kt__B5 ch. 

)— R6 ch. 

— • - ' 

93 «i iKt— Q6ch. ^^B-Kt2ch. 1O7 
noK-Ktsq. 95orK— Q4 

— Kt2 

UUB— Q4 0«B— K6ch. ouKt— K3 ch. 

nnR-Ksq. 78nnQ-Kt4 94 K-B sq. 96?RK-B4 
72«JGR_Kt3ch. "DP— KR4 «|JQ_R5 97 

n.B-Kt3 onQ-B5 niP-~Kt3 98 

R— 65 ch 
Kt-Q4 

Kt— R4 

79 

28 

KtxP 
KtXR 

73 

D< 

p__B8 queening. °^Q— KS 

nrQ~Kta 

UUB— R6 

109 

K-B4 

'Black mates in 
two moves 

Q— B6niate. 

and wins. 11O1 

Till. IU V LOPEZ. 25 

Gunsberg v. Schallopp. 

(iamc 5. — To this game was awarded the brilliancy pri/.r in tlmt tournament : 

Game 5.— A defence first adopted by Mortimer in the London tournament of 1883. Should White 

capture the KP he would lose a piece by the reply P — QB3, followed by Q — R4 ch. 

(lame 5.— This weakens the King's side and is the cause of future trouble. But we believe he could 

afford that by proper subsequent play, especially as Black has apparently nothing better than to 

oppose his KRP in the same way. 

Game 5. — Black now enters on a bold and spirited attack which is only justified by the result, but 
we believe is not analytically sound. 

Game 5. — All very clever and relatively correct as he must stand or fall with the attack, which he 
has initiated at the cost of material. 

Game 5. — But just a little precaution on the part of White might have turned affairs, B— Kt3 attacking 
a P and getting a piece into safety which stood loose on the board was clearly the proper play. 
The move in the text was simply an error, and is taken advantage of by the opponent with great 
ingenuity. 

Game 5. — After this his game becomes rapidly disorganized. He still could have made his defence 
good by B— Q sq. 

Game 5.— Of course the natural sequence. Black after this gives no rest to the enemy, who is prac- 
tically beaten already. 

Game 5— This point constitutes the brilliancy quality of this game. Though the soundness of the previous 
sacrifice of two Pawns is very questionable, the game is now well redeemed by this offer of a sacri- 
fice of the Q, which, if accepted, would be followed by mate in three moves, namely, by PxR 
queening ch., B — R6ch., and R — K8 mate. 

Game 5.— If R— Q sq., Black would win a R by exchanging Queens, followed by BxR and R— K& 
ch., and if KxP Black would win speedily by QXP ch., etc. 

Game 5. — There was no resource. If 21 Kt— Q2, 21 B — Kt6 ; 22 P— Q4 (or 22 Kt— K4, 22 RxKt); 
23 BXP ch., 23 KXB ; 24 R— Ky ch., 24 K— Kt sq. ; 25 Q— KB3, and wins. 

Steinitz v. Rosenthal. 

Game 6. — To this game was awarded the special prize for brilliancy in the grand tournament of 

that Congress. 

Game 6. — Though Black obtains some attack by this and the next move, the line of play here 

adopted cannot be recommended, as Black has to sacrifice a P, which should give White the advan- 
tage. 
Game 6.— If 5 P— Q3 ; 6 P— Cj4, 6 PX? ; 7 PXP, 7 B— Kt5 ch.; 8 K— B sq. + threatening 

Q— R4- 

Game 6. — Better than P — Q5, in which case Black could well retreat Kt — Kt sq. 

Game 6.— Best. If 8 QPXB ; 9 KtXP, gKtXP; ioR— Ksq., 10 P or B— KB4 ; H Kt— Q2, 

with an excellent game. 

Game 6. — Loss of time, as the opponent's next two excellent moves prove. 

Game 6.— If 17 RxP, 17 B— 62; 18 P — 64 best, 18 Kt— 63, with an excellent game. 

Game 6.— If now 18 RxP, 18 KR— K sq.; 19 Kt— 63, 19 B— Kt2 ; 20 R— QKt5 (or 20 R— Q6, 20 

B— 62 ; or 20 R— KKt5, 20 P— KR3 ; 21 R— Kt4, 21 Kt— K4, etc.), 20 6—63 ; 21 R— Kt3, 

21 Kt — K4, with a strong attack. 
Game 6. — B— B sq. was much better. If, however, 26 B — R4, White could not capture the B on 

account of the answer R — 63, but he could move QR — Kt sq., followed by Kt — Ilt4 if once more 

attacked by R— QB sq. j 

Game 6. — An unsound sacrifice if White had played properly. 

Game 6. An error which costs the game. PxKt instead would have won easily by 30 PXKt, 

30 BxP ; 31 Q— Kt2, 31 B— R7ch.;(or 31 Q— RS ; 32 B— Q2 and must win), 32 K— B 

sq. etc. 

Game 6. — A beautiful rejoinder which turns the tables. 

Game 6. — This makes matters worse. The best defence now was Q — Kt2, which might have led to 

the following continuation: 31 Q— Kt2, 31 R— KKt3 ; 32 B— Kt3, 32 QxQ ch.; 33 KxQ, 33 

BXB ; 34 PxB, 34 RxP ch. ; 35 K— R2, 35, RxP ; 36 Kt--Kt4, followed soon by R-QB sq. 

If, however, 31 PxKt, 31 R— Kt3 ch., 32 B-Kt5 (of course if 32 K— Rsq., 32 Q— B6ch. and mates 

next move. Or 32 B— Kt3, 32 BxB and wins), 32 BxP ch.; 33 K— 62!, 33 B— Kt6 ch; 34 K— K2, 

34 Q — Kt5 ch. , with a winning game. 

Game 6. — Beautiful play. Though the adversary comes out a piece ahead the line of attack in the 

text is much stronger and finer than recovering a clear R by R — Kt3 ch. , in which case White 

would have interposed the B followed by Q— Kt2 in reply to PxR- 
Game 6.— Fatal. But Q— B2 was not much better, e.g., 33Q— B2, 33 R— Kt3 ch; (not R— K7, in 

which case White could reply R—K sq.) 34 B-Kt3, 34 P-KR4; 35 Kt— K3, 35 P— RS; 36 

*4 (Continued on page 27 .) 

26 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

GAME NO. 5. 

Move 19 PXP. 

BLACK — SCHALLOPP. 

GAME No. 6. 

Move 35 P— Bych. 

BLACK — ROSENTHAL. 

ill 'mm. 

•1 

WHITE — GUNSBERG. 

WH ITE— STE I N ITZ . 

GAME No. 7. 

Move 23 P— Q6. 

BLACK — STEINITZ. 

iP 

•wr/////, . ^j^ «%SK^ 

GAME No. 8. 

Move 20 PxKtP. 

BLACK — ZUKERTORT. 

WHITE — SELLMAN. 

WHITE— TSCHIGORIN. 

THE iu Y i.oi-i:/. 27 

(Continued from page 21). 

Kt-B sq., 36 PXB; 37 PxP (if KtxP, the answer is P-KB4), 37. . . .R-R3; 38 Kt-R2 (if 38 
Q-R2, 38 1 -R7 ch. ; wins at least a piece) 38 R— K3 with a fine attack. 

Game 6.— Mr. Rosenthal now finishes off with a few elegant strokes which deserve the special prize 
for brilliancy awarded to this game. 

Game 7.— Either this or P-^QB4 (which is preferred by Herr Englisch and Dr. Noa) are necessary, 
as Black threatens to win a piece by P— QB4 and P— 65. 

and as 

Sellman v. Steinitz. 

34 (whic 
ce by P- 

81. Game 7.— This B is better posted at K3. 

82. Game 7.— Aiming at a prospective attack on the King's side which is very hard to reach, 

his pieces were not well developed, and especially as his KBP, the advance of which was necessary 
for forming a King's side attack is blocked by his own B. Kt— Q2 was preferable. 

83. Game 7.— Not good, for it weakens his QBP. 

84. Game 7.— Which allows the opponent the important majority of Pawns on the Queen's side. But 
there was hardly anything better, as he had to guard against the adverse attack by B — 63 and 
P — Kt5 . 

85. Game 7.— If PxP followed by Q— Q4 White after retaking would play Q— K3, threatening B— KA 
should Black capture the KKtR 

86. Game 7. — To cut off the QB from supporting the weak Q side, and also to prevent Q — Kt3- 

87. Game 7. — His position is much confined and he makes a risky effort to extricate himself. 

88. Game 7.— If 19 PxQP, 19 Kt— Q4 ; 20 Q— K*, 20 PxKBP ; 21 BxP, 21 Kt— Kt5 ; 22 B— Q sq. 
(there seems nothing better if 22 Kt— R3 Black wins by B — Q4 followed by Q — QR4, and if 22 B — 

K3, 22 PxP ; 23 BxP, 23 QxB and wins) 22 B— Q4 ; 23 Q— K2, 23 BxKKtP followed by 

Kt — Q6 ch., or QxP with a winning attack. 

89. Game 7.— His best plan was to retreat B— Q 2 followed by Q — K4in case Black answered Q— 62. 

90. Game 7.— If 22 BxB, 22 QxB ; 23 Q— K4 (or 23 O— O ? 23 Kt— K6 followed by B— KB4 or — Q4 
with a winning game) 23 R — QB sq. with a fine game. 

91. Game 7. — The winning move. 

92. Game 7.— If B— Q sq. Black would win by B— Q4, or by P— Q7 ch. 

93. Game 7.— Better than B— Q4 to which White might reply B— B6. 

94. Game 7.— If now 26 B— B6, 26 BxQ ; 27 BxQ, 27 BxB ; followed accordingly by B— Q 8 or 
Kt — K7 ch., and remaining with apiece ahead. 

95. Game 7.— If he meant to fight on at all K— B sq. was better. 

96. Game 7.— If he move in the corner, then follows Kt — 67 ch., Kt — Kt$ dis.ch., and Q — R5, etc. 

97. Game 7. — Q — Kt4 was most precise, for then White had not the resource of Q — K2, for in that case 
Black could answer B — Kt5. 

98. Game 7. — Q — K2 might have prolonged the game as he could interpose the Q at 63 if Black played 
Q— 65 ch. 

Tschigorin v. Zukertort. 

99. Game 8. — In the Book of the London International Tournament of 1883 Zukertort remarks on this 
move : " New, bnt no improvement on the usual continuations 7 PxKt or 7 B— K2." 

100. Game 8. — An excellent move which supports the centre until the Pawns are ready for attack. 

101. Game 8.— If 9 Q— Qs, 9 PxP ; 10 QxP ch., 10 B— Q2 ; 11 Q— Qs, n R— QKtsq.; 12 Kt— 63, 

12 P— 63, etc. (Zukertort). 

102. Game 8. — Fine play. The centre Pawns are now well prepared for action. 

103. Game 8.— KKt— Q2 was better (Zukertort.) We believe that with 15 BxB, !5;PxKt; 16 PxP, 

16 R— K sq. ; 17 BxQ (there seems nothing better) 17 RxQ ; 18 BxP, 18 Kt— Kt4 ; 19 Kt— 

Q4, 19 R — Q7 ; 20 P — KR4 White had a good prospect of equalizing the game. 

104. Game 8.— 16 Q— K3 or B 4 would be a little better, while 16 PxP leads to immediate loss with 16 

BxB ; 17 Kt— K6, 17 Q— B3 ; 18 KtXB, 18 Q— Kt3 ch.; 19 K— R sq., 19 P.X? and. wins. 

(Zukertort.) 

105. Game 8. — A beautiful move. Zukertort points out that it threatens mates in 4 moves, com- 
mencing with Kt — R6 ch., or Q — Kt5 accordingly, and that 18. . . .Q — Kt5 would have been bad 
White would reply KtxBP. 

106. Game 8. —If 21 BxB, 21 Kt— R6ch.; 22 KX?, 22 Q— Kt2 ch.; 23 KxKt, or— Kt3, 23 Q— B6 
ch., followed by R— 65 ch. and wins. (Zukertort.) 

107. Game 8. — 24. . . .B — Q6 ch. was, we believe, stronger still, and might have led to the following 
continuation : 25 K— Q4 best, 25 QR— Q sq. ch. ; 26 K— 63, 26 ;B— Kt4 dis.ch.; 27 R— K3, 27 
Kt— Q4 ch. ; 28 K— Q2, 28 RxP ch. and mates in a few moves. 

108. Game 8.— Obviously if RxKt Black also answered R— 65 ch. and mates next move. 

109. Game 8.— If R— K 8 ch., Black replies best K— 62. (Zukertort.) 

110. Black wins the Q with a check of the Q on the 5th row. 

2S 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

, P-K4 
lp— 1<4 

Game 9. 

Chess Coii- 
, 1873. v/ 

Vienna, Ches 
gress, 

ANDERSSEN 
STEINITZ. 

3p= 

QR3 
R4 

*Kt-B3 

rP-Q3 

°P-Q3 
ftBxKt ch. 

7P-KR3 111 

'P— KKt3 
pKt— B3 

qB-Kf 
°R— Kt sq. 

P— KR3 
P-KKt4 

13 

Kt— Kt sq. 

0_Q_Q 

Kt— K2 

Kt— B3 
Q-B3 

113 

15Kt_Q5 

A nKKt— Ktsq. 
L°O^O 114 
1 nKt— Kt3 
1 ' B— K3 

jnKKt— K2115 

116 

Q-Kt2 

P— QR4 
K-Q2 

P-KB3 

23 

— K2 

QR— KB sq. 
)— Ktq ch. 

,Kt— B sq. 
'P— B? 117 

Q— K2 

(P— Kt4 U8 
IP— B6 

Q— Kt4 

30 
31 

Game 9— Cont'd. 
R(Bsq.)-B2 

P—B4 119 D 

K.PXBP 

PXP 

— Kt3 

33 

35 

BxKt 

PXE 

Kt-K2 

R-KBsq 
-R2 \ 

3B 

K— R2 
Kt— Kt sq. 

F¥~ 

K-B 

sq. 

Kt-K2 

QR-B3 

Kt-Kt3 

White resigns. 12O 

9KKt-B3 
flOKt— 

B3 

Game 10. 

London Chess Con- 
gress, 1862. 

4 ANDERSSEN 
PAULSEN. 

Kt— £3 121 

4P=Q3 
rBxKt ch. 

P-KR3 

— K2 
QKt-B3 

o-o 

O-0 

Kt— K sq. 

'B— Kt2 122 

•P— Q4 123 

,Kt— BS 124 

»B-BS 

KR 

Q3 

— K s. 

15 

KR— K sq. 
Q-Kt4 
KtxKt 125 

17 

-B3 

P 
Kt-K2 

n 

_R5 126 

— R4 

Kt— Kt3 

•B— K4 127 
P-E6 ! D 128 

129 

— KKt4 
-K2 130 

BXB 

sq.131 

RXR 

Q-K8ch. 

ft OK Kt2 

0ftKt-Rsch. 

Black resigns. 

B-Kt5 

Game 11. 

Salvioli. 

ANDERSSEN 
PAULSEN. 

"P— QR3 

— QR 
-R4 

B-Kt3 

B— Kt2 
0-0 

— KKt3 

B— Kt2 
(P— QR4 132 

'KKt— K2 

QKt-B3 
OF 

10 

n 

Kt-Q5 
B-R2 

P-Kt5 

Kt— K2 

P-04 

P-KB3 

P— B 

133 

p— Kt6 
BPXP 

Pxp 
PXP 

'BXP? 134 
|Q— K sq! 135 

P-Kt4 dig, ch. 
•R— 62 136 

,Kt— K6 

D 137 

?i— 

"^QR-KBsq.138 

2srR4 

t— B3 

11 

BX Rand wins 

Game 12. ! 

Vienna, Chess Con\ 
\ gress, 1883, 

BLACKBURXEJ 
STEINITZ. I 

— K2 

'KtxKt 

rQxKt 

P— QKt4 

P-QB4? 139 

11 

B-Kt2 

- sq. 

141 

13 

B-B2 

Kt— Kt3 

sq. 

1RQ-R5 

lOQR-Ksq.142 

1/B— Qsq. 
<BKt-B5 143 
lOp— B3 
,nP-QR4! 

pnRPXP 

0|B-K3 144 

JQ_Q 

Q-R 

3 145 

|R_K4 146 
.R-Q7 ! P 

.Kt-R6 ch.ffins. 
I '•' 147 

Till-. KLV Lol'l./ 29 

Anderssen v. Steinitz. 

111. (lame 9.— P — Q4 is, we believe, better. But Professor Anderssen had previously adopted success- 

fully_the same tactics, as in the present game, against first-class players (see for instance the two next 
games), and his manoeuvring was, we believe, based on the idea that Black's KB cannot be brought 
into proper action and that Black will liavi- to exhaust himself in his efforts to undouble his QBP. 
The line of play adopted here for the defence shows that the open QKt file and the two bishops are 
sufficient recompense for the doubled Pawn. 

112. (lame 9. — This and the next five moves for Black form part of one plan, namely, to manoeuvre his 
Kt to Q5- For that purpose he was bound to provide against the hostile entrance of B — R6 as soon 
as the Black Kt played to K2. 

113. Game 9. —Had he played P-QB3, then Black could, nevertheless, answer Kt— Q5, and would 
recover the piece should PxKt. 

114. Game 9. — Black has altogether neglected the principle of rapid development which was one of the 
maxims of the old school, and he has deferred castling until he has ccmpleted his manoeuvres to 
obtain possession of the adverse centre with his Kt. Obviously White cannot break in at any point, 
while Black can form an attack in different directions after due preparations, either by the ultimate 
advance of the QRP or the QP or the KBP. 

115. Game 9. — White has no doubt wasted time, but it is difficult to suggest any plan of operation for 
him that would be more than of a waiting and defensive character. 

116. Game 9. — After this exchange, which might have been delayed but could hardly be avoided, 

Black obtains much the best of the game. 

. Game 9. — By this move Black effects his purpose of shutting up the adverse Q, and all his Pawns 
are well defended, or not approachable. It will be easily seen that White cannot exchange Pawns 
without subjecting himself to a still stronger attack on the Queen's side at once. 

. Game 9. — If he had exchanged both Pawns Black would equally gain the advantage in position 
afterward by P — KB4, or else by taking possession of the open QB file with his R. 

. Game 9. — Having accomplished his object of practically getting rid of the adverse Q, Black con- 
centrates his attack on the other wing, and by steady pressure he breaks through, with 
some difficulty, which shows that the defensive * disposition of White's forces remained strong, 
though they are deprived of the assistance of the Queen. 

>. Game 9. — Whichever R retakes the B Black answers QxP and wins in a few moves. 

Anderssen v. Paulsen. 

21. Game 10. — Though Black does not advance P — QR$ on the third move, as in the previous game, the 

positions become very similar, but the line of play adopted by each of the parties is widely differ- 
ent from the respective treatments of this opening by the players in the first quoted game which 
occurred eleven years later. 

22. Game 10.— Generally it is preferable in such a situation to keep the B in communication with both 
wings and B — Q2 is preferable. The B is here posted with some remote expectation of bringing it 
to bear against the King's side. 

1. Game 10.— Not good, for it leaves a hole at QB4, which weakens all the Pawns on the Q side. 
P — Kt3 with the object of playing Kt — Kt2 or else P — QB4, followed by P — KB4, was more con- 
genial to the position. 

.24. Game 10. — White also plays for a King's side attack which can be easily guarded against, and he 
endangers his game when he could have obtained a sure advantage by manoeuvring on the 
other side Kt— QKt 3 with the object of playing Kt— 65 or R$ sooner or later was the proper 
play. 

.25. Game 10.— Lowenthal rightly suggests here B — B sq. as much stronger. White had then to guard 
against the threatened P— KKt3, and his whole attack would have soon been broken. The likely 

continuation was after 15 B— B sq.; 16 BxKt, 16 PxB ; 17 Q— 63, 17 QBxKKt ; 18 

QXB, 18 BxKt; 19 PXB, 19 R— K4, followed by Q — K2, with much the superior game. 

5. Game 10.— Black's game is now inferior. If 18 R— K$; 19 Kt— Kt3, 19 R— 65; 20 Q— QKt3, 

20 B — R3; 21 B — R3, 21 P — R5, 21 Q — Q3, and we prefer White's game. 

7. Game 10. — Black gives the opponent an opportunity for a beautiful combination stroke. But his 
game was anyhow very bad already, for in answer to QR— R sq., which was about his only other 
alternative, White would have replied Kt — R5 with an irresistible attack. 

(Continued on page 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

GAME No. 9. 

Move 30. .. .P — 64. 

BLACK— STEINITZ. 

1 

• 

GAME No. 10. 

Move 22 P— B6. 

BLACK — L. PAULSEN. 

WHITE — ANDERSSEN. 

WHITE— ANDERSSKN. 

GAME NO. I I. 

Move 24 QXB. 

BLACK — PAULSEN. 

GAME No. 12. 

Move 24 R — Qy. 

BLACK — BLACKBURNE. 

WHITE — ANDERSSEN. 

WHITE — STEINITZ. 

•mi-: ui v i.oi'i-z. 3, 

(Continued from page 2<)) . 

Game io. — The present key move of his final attack is remarkably fine and effective. 
Game io.— If 22. . . .PXP; 23 Kt— 85, 23 Q— B sq.; 24 BX B, 24 PxB; 25 RxP, 25 K— 11 sq.; 
26 O Kt3, with a fine attack. 

Ganu- io < Jverlooking the forcible winning process by 24 RxB, 24 RxR; 25 P— KB4, 25 QXP; 
26 R— KB si[. and wins. 

Game io.— Black on the otherhand does not see that he can save and win the game now 
by g— Kt3 followed by P— 83 if BxB. * 

Anderssen v. Paulsen. 

Game ii. — We think that the move we propose in our Col. 10, viz., 8 Kt — Kt5 gives White a 

stronger attack. 

Game n. — This is premature. P — KR3 was here a necessity. 

An error of which White takes advantage in a precise manner. 

Game n. — QR — K sq. would not have answered as well, as Black would attack the Q by Kt — 64. 

Game ii.— There was nothing better. If K — Rsq., the reply KtX? ch. wins the Q or mate is 

effected in two more moves by Q — R4 ch. 

Splendid style. 

If 24 PxQ ; 25 RxR ch., 25 K— R sq., 26 BxKt and wins. 

Blackburne v. Steinitz. 

139. Game 12 . — Not good as it weakens the QP . The correct move is B — K3 . (See Col .12.) 

140. Game 12.— If ii BxP ; 12 R— K sq., 12 P— Q4 ; (best, for if 12 B— Kt3 ; 13 B— Q5, 13 

R— B sq. !, 14 B— Kt 7, 14 R— B2 ; 15 BxRP followed by P— QR4 and should win . If 12 

B-B3; 13 B— Qs, I3Q— Q2, I4Q— B3, I4BXB; 15 QxB, 15, R— Qsq.; 1 6 B— B4 followed 
by P— QR4 with a fine attack, and wins) 13 P— 63 followed by BxP. 

141. Game 12. — Weak for White's Q4 sq. is made accessible to the hostile pieces. Kt — Kt3 at once 
was better. 

142. Game 12. — It was better to play the KR in order to remove B — B sq., which completely protected 
the King's side. 

143. Game 12. —In order to prepare for the advance of the QP, for if now 18 P— Q4 ; 19 P— K$ 

and Black dare not capture twice on account of the ultimate Kt — K; ch., followed by QxRP ch. 

144. Game 12. — An excellent sacrifice of a P which well repays. 

145. Game 12. —An ingenious trap as will be seen. 

146. Game 12. — Overlooking the opponent's design. Kt — K4 with the view of sacrificing the exchange 
by Kt — Q6 in case the opponent played Kt — Q6 was his best defense. 

147. Game 12. — This wins by force. 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

P— K4 

Game 13. Game 14. 

KKt-B3 

B-Kts 

Game 15. Game 16. 

Paris Chess Con- Correspondence 
gress, 1878. Ga»ie. 

\ ZUKERTORT FRANKFORT 
BLACKBURNE STUTTGART. 

3c 

P-QR3 
B— R4 

•Kt-B3 

.O— O 

°B— Kts . 
pO-0 

^KtxP 

RP--Q4 

OQ._O 

OP— QKt4 
7B-Kt3 

' B -B4 
nP-Q4 

/P-Q4 

8x 

"KtxQP 
QKKtxKt 

Kt— K2 
Kt-Kts 

"KtxKt! 

"KtxKt? 153 
1f]BxKt 

, , QB— KKts 

lUp_QB3 
P-QR4 

J*P— KB3 

, nB— Kt3 ch. 

iip— Kts? 154 
4 op~QB4! 

1«K— R sq. 
nB-K3 148 

^"PXPin passing. 
i nKtXP 

10p-Q3 
. .P— KKt4 

IOR_Ktsq. 
. .Kt— K4! 

14B_Q2 
Q_B3 

14B-K3 155 
4CKt— Q6ch. 

l^Q—Ksq. 

A nQR-Q ^. 

10K-Q2 

1RQ-Q3 

1DKtxKt 

, 7KtPxKt 

lbQ-Kt3 
P-R5 156 

i'BxB 
1RQXB 

1/QXB 
A nQxQRP 

IOP-KKt3! 149 

1QPxP 

R-I33 

n 

K -R sq. 

P-B3 

Q-Kt4 

Q-K2 

20 

O-Kts 

B-Q2! 

157 

Q-R7ch. 

p_B4 bliK— Qsq. 

nnKR-Ktsq. ?QQXRch. 
^ U Q— R3 ISO " U Kt— B sq. 

arw C6«j Gw- Paris Chess Con- 
gress, 1878. grcss, 1878. 

MACKENZIE WINAWER 

WINAWER. ZUKERTORT. Game 15-Confd. 

'Kt-B3 
,O— O 

— K7 

P-Q4 

— Bsq. 

Ro-o 

fiQ-K2 

U^R— K3 
nnP-R5 

OB— K2 

7P-K5 

"Kt-Qs 

u^QR — B3 
niR-QBsq. wim 

' Kt— KS 
qKtxP 

'KtPxB 
gPXP 

u^t 

"KlxKt 
nQxKt 

°Kt Kt2 
qKt-Q4 

"Kt— 64 
1f]B-Kt3 

UQ Q 

nnKXR 

luKtxB 
, . RPxKt 

. . QKt— B3 

oUR_Q7ch. - 

Q1K~B3 

o-o 

Kt— B4 168U1RXP 

K— Rsq. 161 
4 nKt-B3 
10 

P-B3 
Q-Kt4 

A i 

lfl 

'P— QKt3 162 
QR_Q sq. 

R— R2 163 
Kt-Q5__ 

IQ^ 

lDp_QR4 

Q-Kt3__ 
1/P-KR3 164 

R-Q3 

Kt— Kj 

B— R6 

nn 
«JU 

Kt-B6 

R— B2 
B— K3 

12 
13 
14 

\ g -o n rxx^x 

1JK— Rsq.l70«jOK-Kt2 
1RP-KE4 npKt-Q5 

1DP-Q4 
jyKtXB 

171 

— R3! 

172qr7R-K5 

1fi 

A Op 

Kt 

— QKt4 
t— E6 

— R6ch. 

165 

20 

B— K2 

BXP ! D 166 

§XP UOB— B2 

Xp 4nR— K7 

40i 

*"QXB 

Q-R4ch. 

Game 13-Confd. /J OK-Kt sq. 167 
n.R-Kt3 

BxKt 

PXB 

""KtxB 
9 4 QxKt 

BXP ch. 

"ABxP 
nnQXQ 

B-Ktsq. 

42 

P— Kt4 

PXP 

P— B3 

or ™ 

UUB O2 

RxB 

RxQch. 

wins. 

24 
25 

R-Qj 

R— B2 

P— Kt3 
R— K sq 

*Up_ R4 

P-Kt5ch. 
44K-Kt2 

Q-Kt3ch. 

**• ^"i- i r_ i 

QR— Q sq. 4 OK— B sq. 
OR-K2 _R_ R7 

P— Kt6 

B— Kt3 
Q-Kt4 

R(Kt3)-K3 
'P-04 152 

fl'P— B3 160 a'R— Ksq. 

28|E»- o,e,^, 28^^_ 

nnQXQBch. nnQxKt&wiB8. ftnQxRP 

P_ 64 
R-K7 

R-Q: 
,RXP 

-47 

175 ,nKtxBch. 
~4di^ZK 

K sq. 
Drawn game 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 33 

Blackburne v. Zukertort. 

Game 13. — Compare our Col. 18 up to this juncture. 

Game 13. — An excellent move which seizes a powerful attack on the King's side. 

Game 13. — Best in order to guard, in anticipation, against the adverse attack byQ — Kt2. 

Game 13.— Fine play. By bringing his B round to KKt3 ne s^ attacks the weakest point of the 

enemy and protects his King's side against any danger. 

Game 13.— A powerful and winning stroke. 

Frankfort v. Stuttgart. 

Game 14. — We do not like this exchange, and we much prefer Kt — QB4. 

Game 14.— This advance loosens his strong Pawns. There was no objection against B — Q2. 

Game 14.— Obviously, if PxKt, the reply BX? ch. wins. 

Game 14. — The initiation of a beautiful and deep laid plan. 

157. Game 14.— Nothing better now. If 21 Q— QB4 ; 22 R— QB sq., 22 Q— 0.5 ; 23 B— K3, 23 

Q— Kt5 ; 24 Q— R; ch., 24 K— Q sq. ; 25 B— Kt6 ch., and wins. 

Game 14.— If 24 BxKt ; 25 PxB, 25 Q moves ; 26 Q— B; ch, 26 K— K sq.; 27 R— K sq. and 

wins. (Salvioli.) 

Game 14.— If 25 QxP ; 26 B— R5 ch., 26 K— K2 ; (if QxB the Q is lost by Kt— Kty ch.) 27 

Q— 67 ch., 27 B— Q2 ; 28 Kt— 65 ch. and wins (Salvioli). For mate is now forced after 28 

K— K3 best ; by 29 Kt— Q4 ch., 29 K— K2 ; 30 Q— Q8 mate. 

Game 14.— There is nothing better. If 27 B— K2 ; 28 BxB, 28 KxB ; 29 Kt— 65, and wins. 

Mackenzie v. Winawer. 

L. Game 15. — Compare notes 53 and 54 to Col. 20. Zukertort played at this stage against the same 
opponent in the same tournament 12. .. .P — Q4 ; and White took the P in passing, and after the 
exchange of pieces Black remained with an isolated QP. The game ultimately ended in a draw. 
Black, however, cannot play P— KB3, for White would win a P by Q— 64 ch., followed by 

PXP. 

2. Game 15. — A feeble sort of waiting policy. 13. . . .P — Q3 ; 14 Kt — Q5, 14 R — K sq. ; was his best 
resource, for though White can now also win a P by KtxB and PXP, Black will be able to develop 
his forces, and is likely to draw on account of the Bishops being of opposite colors. 

3. Game 15. — Waste of time. Evidently P — ?4 was the proper play. 

I. Game 15. — Necessary as a temporary expedient, for he could not afford to allow B — Kts, but this 

advance is the cause of breakdown in a few moves. 
5. Game 15. — Excellent play. Of course Black dare not take, for White would reply Q— R4 and 

win in a few moves. 

3. Game 15. — A master coup which disorganizes the opponent's game. 
167. Game 15.— Clearly if 23 Q— R2, the ch. of the Q at B6 followed by the ch. of the R also wins 

the Q. 

Winawer v. Zukertort. 

L68. Game 16. — In Col. 25 we recommend P — KB3 at once at this juncture. We think this better, as in 

some continuations the Kt may be wanted to enter at Oj after advancing P— Q4- 
169. Game 16.— If 12 B— Qsq.; 13 B— R6, 13 PxB ; 14 Q— Kt4 ch., 14 B— Kt4 ; 15 KtxP ch. and 

34 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

GAME No. 13. 

Move 26 B— K sq. 

BLACK — ZUKERTORT. 

• A 

GAME No. 14. 

Move 25 P — R6. 

BLACK — STUTTGART. 

• 1! 

!*• 

WHITE — BLACKBURNE. 

WHITE — FRANKFORT. 

GAME No. 16. 

Move 20 BxP. 

BLACK— WINAWER. 

„ 

GAME No. 16. 

Move i8P— 95. 

BLACK — ZUKERTORT. 

• 

•I 

.••I* 

......... 

WHITE — MACKENZIE. 

WHITE — WINAWER. 

THE RUY LOPEZ. , 35 

(Continued from page jjj . 

171. Game 16. — We would have decidedly preferred B — Esq. for this threatened KtXP followed l>y 
PXP and P— Q3- 

172. Game 16.— If 17 PXP en passant, 17 PxP ; 18 KtXP, 18 BxKt ; 19 KxB, 19 Kt— Q$ and 
wins. 

173. Game 1 6.— There seems to have been nothing better. If 19 PxKt, 19 PxKt ; 20 Q— $64, 2c 
PXP, with at least as good a game as White's. 

174. Game 16. — With this he gets himself into difficulties from which he does not recover for some time. 
Taking possession of the open file by R — K sq. was much better. 

175. Game 16. — R — K5 was much stronger, for it threatened to win all the Pawns on the Queen's side 
and to remain a clear P ahead without relieving the adverse K if Black adoptc 1 a line of play simi- 
lar to the one that actually occurred. 

L76. Game 16. — With this the draw is forced, for R and Kt cannot win against R by best play, and 
Black has also an extra P which White must try to get rid of. 

Game 17. 

International Chess 
Magazine. 

BAUER 
FORGES. 

P K 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 
0KKt— B3 0B— Kts 

IP— K^ 

Game 18. 

DUFRESNE 
LEHRBUCH 
Des SCHACH- 
SPIELS. 

LOWENTHAL, 
BRIEN & WOR- 
MALD 
In consultation. 

"QKt— B3 

Game 19. 

DUFRESNE 
LEHRBUCH. 
Des SCHACH- 
SPIELS. 

NEUMANN 
ANDERSSEN. 

Q 

0 

Game 20. 

Chess Match between 
Messrs. Steinitz and 
Blackburne. 

STEINITZ 
BLACKBURNF. 

0 

Game 20^Cont'd. 
99B-Q4 

Kt— B3 
0-0 

3p-QR3 
,B-R4 

"Kt-B33 

dp— QR3 

^KtXP 

4Kt-B3 
-O— O 

4Kt-B3 

SB— K2 

Q-K2 

&KtxP 
pR-K sq. 

O— O 187 
RBxKt 

P-B? 

.DKt-Q3 

"Kt— B4 
7BXKt 

"KtPxB 
7KtXP 

"B— K2 194 
7P-KR3 195 

'KtPxB 

flPxP 

'QPXB 
pKtxP 

/P-Q4 
RO— O 188 

'O— O 

"Kt— Kt2 

OB— K3 183 

nQ— R5 
Q J 

PXP 

8lvt-K sq. 
nP-KKu 

. nR-Q sq. 

«Q— B3 184 

«B-Q3 
. pKtxQBP189 

. pB— 62 

^^lp_B3 
9nQ~R6 

AUQ— Ksq. 
..R-Ksq.177 

10Kt-Q2 

4 4 B— Kt5 

. . Kt— R5 190 

!"B— QKt2 
..QKt-Q2 196 

"UP— Kt5 

PT/"4.— 
.. . —-^15 

11 Kt B4 178 

llQ-B4 
9P-KKH 

llQ_QKt4 

. nKt— Kt3 

11Q-Q2 
. ,,Kt— B sq. 

"*P— B4 201 
9cB B6 

4 9Kt-B5 

l"Kt K3 
4 n t — i\.t4 

A^QXQBP 

•^"QB— KKt5 
|nQ-Q2 191 

l"Kt— Qsq. 
4 0Kt-K3 

9RPXP 

1"P KB3 179 

13p_KKt3 
,, J|KtxR!D184 

11KXB 

1 "Kt— K3 

£( Up* V'P* 

97P-Kt6D2od 

14R B2 
. -BxP ! D 180 

14PXQ 

iKQ^Bj 

!4p_KKt3197 

"/QXKtP 
9pBxKt 

l&KtXB 

15B-K2 
. pRXB ch. 

*"B — B6 D 192 

1RPxB 

B-K3 

^•0QXQch. 
9nBxQ 

. 7Kt— R6 ch. 

1 OK— B sq. 
jyKt-R3 

4 17^ — R sq. 
1 1^: — :F; 

1 OKKt— Kt2 

1?o-o-o 

^R-B3 203 
npKR-Ktsq.ch. 

1 'K— B sq. 181 

, nQR— K sq. 

A/PXP 
. nQ-R2 193 

i/p_QB4 198 

R-Kt3 

. QQ-B4 ch. wins. 

RxKt 

1"Q— K8ch. 

j n\f Xvt SQ. 

nPxP 

n9BXR.ch. 

182 

1«Q KR6 
9nR-B7ch. 

lup — By 

\\ hite resigns. 

1JP— 65 199 

QQKt-Kt5ch. j 

^«K Ktsq. 

9 1 Q—Q2 2OO 

"JUK-Ktsq. 
q.KR-Ksq.204 

21 Black resigns.186 

^lp-QR4 

JJ* Black resins. 

THE RUY LOI'I / 37 

Bauer v. Forges. 

177. (lame 17. -Up to this point the play of both parties has proceeded as in the lines of the preceeding 
game, but here White loses time in order to lay a trap against the established defence. 

178. CJame 17.— 6—64 with the view of advancing P— KBj, or P— Qa accordingly, was the right play. 

179. Game 17. — K — R sq. was now indispensable as a precaution. 

180. Game 17.— Excellent play. There is no good defence against this fine stroke. 

181. ( iame 17.— If K— R sq., he comes at with a clear R behind by the answer KtXR ch., followed by 

QxKt ch., and ultimately RxB. 

182. Game 17,— The R must interpose which White will capture with the Kt followed by QXP, etc. 

Lowenthal, Brien and Wormald in Consultation. 

183. Game 18.— 8 B— K2 is the right move here. 

184. Game 18. — A bad defence which subjects them to a powerful attack. Still B— K2 was the best 

play. 

185. Game 1 8.— Highly ingenious. White gives up the Q but obtains three minor pieces for it, with 
an irresistible attack. 

186. Game 1 8.— After 21 . . . .QxKtP ch.; 22 R— Kt3, 22 Q— Q8 ch.; 23 K— Kt2, Black's game is 
hopeless. 

Neumann v. Anderssen. 

Game 19.— A favorite defence of Professor Anderssen for some time, but he abandoned it ultimately 
as it does not yield a satisfactory position by best play on the other side. 

Game 19. — This is not good. The right answer is 8 PX?, and if 8 Q — K sq. ; 9 O— O, fol- 
lowed by P — Q4, with the superior game. But not 9 P — Q4 as Black would reply 9 .... QB — R3 

preventing White's castling, with a strong attack. Likewise, if Black play 8 QXP in reply to 

PXP, White answers 9 O— O. 

Game 19.— This gives White the inferior game. P — KB4 was much superior. 

Game 19.— His best plan was now 11 Kt— IO; as suggested by Herr Dufresne, or u P — Q5, u B— 

QKt2 ; 12 B— Kt5, 12 KtxP, with the much superior game. 

Game 19. — Here is a case where the King's side has been] early left without any protection from 

minor pieces, and Black now wins by force. If 13 P — KB3, 13 PxP ; 14 PXP, 14 Q— KR4 ; 15 

R— 62, 15 Kt— K5 and wins. 

Game 19. — Winding up with consummate skill. 

Game 19.— No better is 18 Q— Q2, for then follows 18 Q— B8 ch.; 19 K— R2, 19 Kt— K5 and 

Steinitz v. Blackburne. 

Game 20. — P — KKt3 with the view of posting the B at KKt2 is now established as the better de- 
fence. 

Game 20— Not so much for defensive purposes as with the view of forming an attack by P — KKt4 
after Black has castled. 

Game 20.— Introduced for the first time in the present game, and this development of the Kt with 
the view of manoeuvring it to B sq. has since became an established form of attack. 
Game 20. — We believe it would have been better to retreat B — Q sq. 

Game 20.— Much better was 17 P — KB4 ; which "might have led to the following continuation : 

18 Kt-K sq. !, 18 PxKP ; 19 PxP, 19 Kt— 65 ; 20 Q— B sq., followed by P— KB3 and P— KR4. 

(Coittimied on page 

THE RUY LOl'KZ. 

GAME No. 17. 

Movei5....BxKtP. 

BLACK — FORGES. 

n m 

^ %&///. ^ V%%%. %£?///. ^ %£7?M 

GAME No. 18. 

Move 14 KtxR. 

BLACK — BRIEN AND WORMALD IN CONSULTATION. 

WHITE — BAUER. 

WHITE — LOWEXTIIAL. 

GAME NO. 19. 

Move 15 B— B6. 

BLACK — ANDERSSEN. 

II 

•JL 

GAME No. 20. 

Move 27 P— Kt6. 

BLACK — BLACKBURNE. 

I 

IIJ w mm 

mm w§.-mi'vm 

y/* oS* x^BHb' 

i pp" ''im'i'm 

i 

WHITE— NEUMANN . 

WHITE— STEINITZ. 

THE RUY LOPEZ. 

(Continued from page 57) . 

39 

199. Game 20.— If 19 P— Q4 J 20 P— KS best (not PxP on account of the reply Kt— B$), 20 P— 

B$ ; 21 P— KR4, with an excellent attack. 

200. Game 20.— Threatening both wings, but chiefly the King's side after removing the B. 

201. Game 20.— After 24 Kt (Kt2) — K sq. ; 25 P— KR4, 25 Q— Kt2 ; 26 QxQ'ch., 26 KtxQ ; (or 

26. . . . KXQ ; 27 P— RS, etc.,) 27 PxP, 27 Kt— R4 ; 28 Kt— Kt5 (threatening P— 67 ch.), 28. ... 

KKtxBP ; 29 P— R5, White has an irresistible attack, for if 29 KtxP ; 30 RxKt followed by 

R— Kt sq. wins. And if 29 K— Kt2 ; 30 PxP, 30 PxP ; 31 R— R7 ch. and wins. 

Game 20.— This wins a piece by force. For obviously if PxP, Kt — Kt5 follows. 

Game 20.— If 29 R— B2 ; 30 KR— Kt sq. ch., 30 K— R sq.; 31 B— K3, 31 P— KR3 ; 32 B— Q4 

ch., 32 K— R2 ; 33 BxP ch., 33 RxB ; 34 R— Kt7 ch., 34 K— R sq.; 35 QR— Kt sq. and wins. 
Game 20. — White threatens according to circumstances, R — K6 or R — K7. 

202. 
203. 

204 

DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. 

FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 

The Double Ruy Lopez is a continuationof the Four Knights' Game in which both 
parties follow up by B — Kt5. The attack by Kt — Q5 had been greatly in favor with 
first-class practitioners for many years, until the author played in his match with Zuker- 
tort, in 1886 (see Illustrated games), the defence pointed out in Col. i, which rests chiefly 
on a combination of Black's yth and 8th moves. 7. . . .P — K5 had already been played 
Mr. Gunsberg, but in conjunction with 8. . . .QPxP it makes the game so equal at 
early stage as to render the attempt of an attack absolutely useless. 

In Col. 2 the attack with Kt — Q5 is made before castling, and though it leads to an 
exchange of Queens and to the doubling of one of Black's Pawns, the second player 
obtains a powerful counter-attack on account of his two Bishops, and ' ' the hole " on 
White's KB3 and KR3 which makes the protection of White's Kt difficult and gives- 
Black entrances into the adverse game. 

Col. 3 also leads to an even game at least for the defence, and in fact we would 
slightly prefer Black at the end. But as most players would hesitate to move their King 
early in the opening, the defence in Col. i, which simplifies matters at an early stage, is to 
be preferred. 

Col. 4 is a modification of a variation that occurred in a fine game between Winawer 
and Zukertort in the Paris Congress. (Compare Col. 1 1 and Illustrative games. ) It 
ought to end in an even game by proper treatment such as we propose, whereas the way 
played in that game White obtained an excellent attack at the expense of a Pawn, which 
blocked the adverse centre and retarded Black's development. 

Col. 5 is another alteration of the opening moves of a celebrated game between Paul- 
sen and Morphy, very finely played by White, whose 8th and 9th moves show exceed- 
ingly strong position judgment. By inducing, or in fact compelling Black to advance^ 
8. ... P — QKt4, he practically demolishes the Queen's side. But in actual play Paulsen 
commits a position blunder by transposing the order of correct moves, and this makes all 
the difference in the analytical results. 1 1 P — QB3 ought, we believe, to render Black's 
game untenable. For P — Q4 will follow to drive the B back, and then B — 63 con- 
tinued, sooner or later (perhaps after P — QKt4), will form an irresistible attack on the 
Queen's side. 

Col. 6 represents a difference in tactics on a principle which is better explained in 
note 13, which deals with the move hitherto recommended by authors, viz., 9 R — K sq. 
for the attack. But we feel sure that this ought only to lead to an even game, and in 
some variations that have been offered in demonstration that White can press 
the attack, we find that the defence ought to obtain the superior 
position. Our main difference in opinion is that the centre attack commenc- 
ing with R — K sq. is a failure, and that a wing attack with the KBP prepared by harrass- 

42 THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. 

ing the Queen at once with the QP and the Kt is the proper play. If our premises are 
right it is quite obvious that the R is wanted to remain at KB sq. in order to support the 
advance of the KBP to 65. 

In Col. 7 we propose an extensionof aline of play against a counter-attack hitherto 
recommended, which we believe ought to be in White's favor. The game was generally 
dismissed as even on Black's 8th move, but we think that the addition of two moves will 
demonstrate our contention. 

Col. 8 shows how White might be led to compromise his game by a plausible sally on 
the 6th move, which apparently wins a P. The variations produce an interesting and 
spirited attack, but by best play Black ought to obtain the advantage. 

Cols. 9 and 10 deal with inferior continuations on the part of the first player, while 
Cols. 1 1 and 12 contain novel analysis to demonstrate that a defence in the Three Knights' 
Game 3. ... P — KKt3, which we ourselves have favored for some time, is unsatisfactory 
and how the first player ought to take advantage of it. 

THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ, FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAMK. 43 

P— K4 
P-K4 

P-K4 

P-K4 
P— K4 

IP— K4 

THE FOUR KNIGHT'S GAME. 

?KKt-B3 
flOKt— 

B3 

?QKt-B3 
"KKt— B3 

nQKt-B3 
flOKt— 

B3 

?QKt-B3 
"KKt— B3 

nt- 
"K— 

Kt— B3 
Kt-B3 

t— B3 

KI— B3 

qKt-B3 
"— 

Kt— B3 

RUY LOPEZ CONTINUATION. 

Double Ruy Lopez Defence ..... k - . .... Cols. I to 4. 

^*B — Kt^ 

Second Defence ......... A _ .... Col. 5. 

"B — 64 ? 

Third Defence ........ - A _ _ .... Col. 6. 

^P— QR3 ? 

Fourth Defence ...... A _ __ .... Cols. 7 to ». 

Second Continuation ...... ^P~ Q4? _ .... Col. 9. 

Third Continuation ....... ^P— QR3 .... Col. 10. 

THE THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 

.v 

.P-K4 9KKt-B3 oKt-B3 

AP— K4 "QKt— B3 « 

Defence ............ Q _ ......... Cols, n to 12. 

UP— KKt3 

44 THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 

0KKt-B3 

.P-K4 
IP— K4 

"QKt— B3 

3^t— ^ 
Kt— B3 

• B-Kts 

3 

Kt-Q5 

PxKt 

*B— Kt5 
-O— O 

Oo— o 

RKt-Q5 

OKtxKt ! 3 °P— K5 ! 

7PxKt pPXKt 

/P-K5 

nPXKt 

QPXP 

10 

BXP- 

'QPXP 
BXP 

'PXKt 

Q-B3 

QB-K2 5 QKt-Ktsq. 6 QO-O 

"PXKt— «Q— Kt4 "P— B^ 

B— B4 

7 

PXKt 

Kt-Q5 
KtxKt 

8 UBxKt 

5 

4fi— 64? 
^O— O 

6 

P— QR3? 
BXKt 

°O— O 
pKtXP 

pKtXP 

OR_K sq. ? 

7KtxKt 

°KtXP 
7KtXKt 

'QPXKt 
pB-B4! 

'Q-Q5 

0-0 

Op— QKt4i 12 

"QxKKt 

B-K2 

.P-KKt3 

IQB— KKts 

p— B3 OB— 64 1 11 

R— K sq. ch. . nB— K3— 
K— Q sq. 9~1UB— K2— 

KtXP 

B-B4_ 
Hp-Q3 

,0Q-Kt3 

10 

— KB4 

B— B4— 

D7 

11 

QP-Q4! 13 
OQ-KB4 14 

10 

P-KB4+ 

D 

Column 2. Move 14 O— O— O. 

BLACK. 

i 

WHITE. 

Column 5. Move 11 P— QB3. 
BLACK. 

WHITE. 

THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. K)UK KNIGHTS' GAME AND II 1KKK KNIGHTS' GAMK. 45 

Col. I/— The same position may be arrived at in the PetrofTs defence, or in theQKt opening, or in 
the ordinary Ruy Lopez by a transposition of moves. 

Col. I. — This attack originated with Mr. Paulsen. It was greatly in favor with Zukertort, who 
adopted it very frequently in matches and tournaments. 

Col. i. — This excellent defence was first adopted by Gunsberg against Ranken in the Vizayan- 
agaram Tournament of London, 1883. It leads to an easy, even game by proper continuation. 

Col. i.— If 8 KtPxP ; 96— K2, (better than 9 B— R4, 9 PxKt ; 10 QxP, 10 B— R3 ; 11 

P_Q3 1,—for if ii R-K sq., n R— K sq.; 12 RxR ch., 12 QxR ; 13 Q— KS, 13 B— QB4, and 

wins,— 1 1 Q— RS with the attack). 9 PxKt ; 10 BxP, and White will obtain the advantage 

sooner or later by P — Q4, P — QB3, and P — QKt4, which prevents the doubled Pawn from being 
dissolved, as occurred in the above mentioned game between the Rev. C. E. Rankin and Gunsberg. 
This game, however, ended in a draw. 

Col. i. —Or 9 BXP, 9 PXB ; 10 Kt— KS (if 10 Kt— K sq., 10 B— R3 ; 11 P— Q3, u R— K sq.+), 

10 Q— Q4; n Kt— Kt4(ii P— Q4?, iiB-R3; 12 P— QR3, 12 B— R4! + ; not 12 BxR, 

on account of the reply PxB, followed by P— QKt3) ; 1 1 P— KB4 ; 12 Kt— K3+, 12 Q— B2+. 

Col. 2.— Or 9 Kt— K5, 9 Q— Kt4 and wins. Or 9 Q— K2, 9 O— Q ; 10 Kt— Q4, 10 QxKt ; 
ii P— QB3, n Q— Q4 ; 12 PXB, 12 P— QR4 +. 

Col. 2.— Continued 15 R— K sq., 15 KR— K sq. ch.; 16 K— B2, 16 RxR ; 17 KtXR, 176—64 
ch. Or 15 P— 63 (if 15 P— Q4, 15 RxP ; 16 P— 63, 16 R— K sq. ch., 17 K— 62, 17 BxKt ; 18 
KXB, 18 R— Q6 ch. + ), 15. .. .KR— K sq. ch.; 16 K— B2, 16 R— Q6 ; 17 Kt— Q4 (or 17 Kt— K 
sq., 17 B— 64 ch.; 18 K— B sq., 18 R— B6 ch. ; 19 K— Kt2l, 19 R— 67 ch.; 20 K— Kt sq., B— 

R6 and mates in two moves), 17 KB— QB4 ; 18 P— KR3, 18 BxKt ch.; 19 PxB, 19 R— 20 B6 

ch.; 20 K— Kt2, 20 R— K7 ch.! ; 21 K— Kt sq., 21 R (K7) —67; 22 PxB, Black mates in 
three moves. 

Col. 3.— Better than 8 Q— K2 ch.; 9 K— Q sq., 9 Q— 63 ; 10 R— K sq. ch., loK— Qsq.; 

ii P— QB3, ii B— 64 ; 12 P— Q3, 12 P— KR3 ; 13 B— Q2 +. 

Col. 3.— If B-K2 White replies P— Q6. 

Col. 3.— Or ii P— QB3, ii 6—64; 12 P— QKt4, 12 B— Q3 ! + (not 12 B— Kt3 ; 13 P— Q3, 

13 P— KR3 ; 14 P— Q6 ! , 14 PxB ; 15 6-64, 15 KR-KKt sq. ! ; 16 P— QB4, with a powerful 
attack.) 

Col. 4. — If 9 B— Kt3 ; 10 Q— Kt4, 10 O— O ; (or 10 Q— 63 ; n P— Q4, u PxP? ; 12 QB 

— Kt5, and wins); u QB— Kt5, ii P— 63 ; 12 B— R6, 12 Q— K2 ; 13 P— Q6, 13 PxP ; 14 6—64 
ch., with a very good position for the P minus. Compare Illustrative Game No. I 

12. Col. 5. — Black's Pawns are now weak. Yet he has nothing better, for if he capture the KP at 
once, White will exchange Knights followed by BxP ch., which Black dare not take on account of 
the answer Q — 63 ch. 

13. Col. 6— Better than 9 R— K sq., 9 B— K3 ; 10 P— Q4, 10 Q— 64 ; n B— Kt5, n P— KR3 ; 

12 B-R4, (or 12 Q-Q3; 12 Q— Kts) ; 12. .. .B— Q3 ; 13 P— KKt4, 13 Q— Kt3. 

14. Col. 6.— Or 9. . . .Q— Q3 ; 10 Kt— 63, 10 Q— Q sq.; n P— KB^'ii B— K2 ; 12 P— 65-1-. 

46 THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 

P-K4 9KKt-B3 

qKt-B3 

12 

IP— K4 "Q] 

789 

0 

10 

.P-QR3 

0 
11 

UKt-B3 
|B— Kt5 AP~®4? 

P— KKt3 
17 P— Q4 

rKtxP np~Qs 

B-KtS 

,-KtXP 

JKKtxP "Kt— K2 
RKtxKt pKtxBP? B— Q2 

1JP-Q5 
RKt— K2 

OB— Kt2 

OQ— K2 DQ— K2 16 OP— Q3 
70— 0 ,,0-0 B— Q3 

OB— Q2 
yp-Q3 

6Kt-B3 
7KtxKt! 

KKt— K2 
7P-KR4! 

'QXKt 'QXKt 'P— QB3 
flR-K sq. pQ-K sq. npXP+ 

pKt-Kt3 

7KtPxKt 
18 pP— K5 

'P— KR3 21 

UB— K2 UQ_K3+ UPXP— 

QKt-B3 

"Kt— Kt sq. 
gP— KB4 

«KtXKt 

UQ— Q3 ! 15 

«P— Q3 19 
jnQ~B3 

10B"Q4 

u 

O-O-O + D 

BXB 

11 2O 

Q-^ch.+ E 

12 22 

Column ii. Move n. O— O— O. 
BLACK. 

i fit*. 

iW, 

^ i m- 

Column 12. Move 12 Q — Q4. ch. 
BLACK. 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 47 

IB. Col. 7.— If 9 Q— QB4 ; 10 P— QKt 4, 10 QxP ; H Kt— Q5, n Q— 64 ; 12 KtxB+ 

16. Col. 8.— Or 6. . . .KxKt ; 7 KtyKt, 7 KtxB ; 8 Q— RS ch., recovering the piece with a P ahead. 
Or if 6 .... KtxKt ; 7 QPxKt, 7 Q-K2 ch. ; 8 B— K3, 8 KtXB ; 9 KtXR followed by O— O and 
R— Ksq.+ 

L7. Col. 10. — A favorite move of Mr. Gunsberg. Its apparent object is to prevent in the continuation 
4 B— 64 ; 5 KtxP, 5 KtxKt ; 6 P— Q4, the answer 6 B— Kt5« 

1.8. Col. 10. — White's position is identical with that of Black in the previous column, with the excep- 
tion that his QRP is moved one square. The move in the text is now better than P— 63 which 
would leave a weak spot at QKt3- 

19. Col. 1 1 -—Or 9 R— Kt sq. ; 10 KB— QB4, 10 RxP ? ; 1 1 B— Kt$ + . 

20. Col. ii.— Continued 11 PxP ; 12 PxP, 12 Kt— K2 (or 12 BxP ; 13 KB— 64,13 Q— K2, 

i3KR-Ksq.+); 13 KB— QB4, 13 O— O ; 14 P-K6, I4?XP; isBxPch., 15 K— Rsq.;i6 

RXB and wins. 

21 . Col. 1 2. — As Black is bound to castle on the King ' s side he cannot allow the adverse KRP to advance 

and open the R file. P— KR4 is also inconvenient as White would reply B — K2, followed soon by 
P— KKt4. 

22. Col. 12.— Continued 12. .. .P— KB3 ; 13 O— O— O, [13 B— K3 ; 14 P— RS, 14 P— Kt4 ; 15 P— 

KKt3+. 

48 THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 

n v- 0KKt— B3 ,Kt— B3 JB~Kt5 

UK>_R? 4 

ISg 

Game 1. 

Paris Chess Con- 
gress, 1878. 

WINAWER 
ZUKERTORT. 

"QKt— B3 

Game 2, 

Match, 1886. 

ZUKERTORT 
STEINITZ. 

>Kt-B3 

^ Game 3. 

Game 4. 

New York Congress, 
1857- 

International Chess 
Magazine, 
May, 1888. 

MAXJUDD PAULSEN 

STEINITZ. MORPHY. 

Kt-Q5 

-B4 

n 

KtxKt 
PXKt 

1 Kt-Qs 
pKtXKt 

"BxKt 
nP-QB3 

B-Kt3 

11 
12 

B-Kts 

P— KB3 
B-R6 

— K.a 

KB— B4ch. 
'K— R sq. 

P— B4 

i# 

-BS 

AUp_QKt4 

iqB^5 

^«QR-Ktsq. 

9?P-KR4 
^JOp_Ktc 

KtPxBP 
BXQBP 

25- 

RXP 

Q-R3 5 
QR-QR4 6 

abp--R4 

KR-KR4 

fl / P— B6 dis. cb. 

K-Ktsq. 

&QB 

30 

B-R3 
R— KKt4 

QR-K sq.!7 
KRxP D 8 

Kt-Qs 

fa 

KtxKt 
PXKt 

'KtxKt 5 6 

rPXKt 

P— K<; 

PXKt 
QXP 

1O 

'QPXP 

BxPch. 

10 

QPXP 
B-Q3 

B- 

12 

— Kt2 13 

,B— B sq. 14 

15 

- sq. 

KR— Ksq.15 

'B-Q4 16 
rBxP ch. 17 

18 

>-RS 

K-Ktsq. 

|Q— R7 ch. 18 

QZR5 ch. 
•K-K2 19 
,R-K3 ch. 

Q-R8ch 

,B-R6D 2O 

— K2 

21 

22 

R— K sq. ch. 

Q— R2 

QXQch. 

Game 1— Cont'd. 

White wins. 9 

Game 2-Confd. 

31P_QB4 

32pZ^ 23 

White resigns. 

Game 3-Confd. 

R— B8 

White resigns. 

o-o 

Kt-Q4 24 

LQ-Kt3 25 
|PXB 

,Q -K3 

P-QKt3 

15 

B"Kt2 

R- 

-Q6 
-B 

—R6 

19 

B-Q6 
R-R3 26 

— Q 

-K 

27 

28 

«AP_ KB4 

99R-Kt3 

^R-B2 

, Q— R8 ch. 
•QXQ ch. 

R-R3 

27 

D 
0-0-0 29 

flOp_B4 30 

SO^p 

0-0 

31 

nKtXP 

°R— Ksq. 32 

'QPxKt 
pB— B4 33 
"P— QKH 34 
qB— K2 35 

"KtxP 
nKtxKt 

36 

37 

, j B— B3 
11R-K3 

1 ? 

" 

P-B3 

i n 
10B 

— Kt3 

-2 38 
2 39 

1 r°xP 

•IOB-Q 

R-R 

•I DQR— K sq 

Q-R6 40 
I/QXBD 41 

R— Kt3ch. 
K-R sq. 
B— R6 
R-Qs. 42 

K-Kt 

sq. 

— B 

sq. 

23 
24 

M 

:h. 43 
K— Kt sq. 
B— R6dis. ch. 
K— R sq. 

~44 

Q-B sq. 

R-R3 
.P-Q4 ^5 

'""^Q 

TllK DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AM) TIIK1.I KNKiHTS1 CAME. 49 

Winawer v. Zukertort. 

Game I . — Compare Col . 4 and Note 1 1 . 

Game i.— B— B2 was preferable, for the B is now exposed to the attack of hostile Pawns. 

Game I.— Much better than ByP, though the latter was also safe. 

Game I. — This is play of the highest order. 

Game i.— If 25. . . .BxR ; 26 BxB, 26 R— Kts (or 26. . . .Q— R3 ; 27 BxRP, etc.); 27 BxQ, 27 

RXQ ; 28 B -63, 28 R— K4 ; 29 P— R6, 29 KR-K sq. ; 30 B -Kt3, with an excellent attack. 
Game i.— An excellent move which retards the development of Black's B and gives White time to 

form his K side attack. 

Game I. — His game was lost ; but R — 63 was his best resource. 
Game I. — Masterly play, though not very deep, for it threatens double ch. mate at once by R — Kt8. 

It forms a well worked out link in the elegant chain of Winawer's combination. 
Game i.— Continued 31 ... .KxB ; 32 Q— Kt4 ch., 32 K— R sq. ; 33 PxP, 33 B— Q6 ch. ; 34 K— 

B sq., 34 QB -KB4 ; 35 Q-R4, 35 R— *7 ; 3° R— Q4, 36 B -Q sq. ; 37 Q-Kt3. 

Zukertort v. Steinitz. 

Game 2.— If 9 PxQP, 9 PXP threatening to capture the R with a'ch. And if 9 PxKtP, the B re- 
takes with a powerful attack. 

Game 2. — Threatening to win a piece by Q — K4, but not as good as B— K2. 

'Much better was P — QB3, with the object of retreating B — 62, and then advancing P — ^4. 

Game 2. — Black threatened Q — K4, and the only other move was P — QB3, whereupon Black could 
force an attack by P-KB4. 

Game 2. — Driving the adverse Q somewhat out of play, for obviously Black dare not reply Q — B6 
on account of the rejoinder BX? ch. 

Game 2.— If 15 QxP ; 16 B— Q2, threatening R — R sq., followed by B— QB3, winning the Q, 

with a strong attack. 

Game 2.— Much better was now 16. . . .QXP, with the probable continuation : 17 BxB, 17 PxB ; 
18 Q-K4, 18 P— KKt3 ; 19 Q -Q4, 19 Q— R6 ; 20 P— QKt4, 20 P— QB4+. 

Game 2. — This sacrifice is unsound, but Black had clearly the best of the game anyhow. 

Game 2.— White could recover the piece by BxB followed by P — QB4, but Black would afterward 
pLy Q— Q7 with great advantage. 

Game 2 . — In the actual game a series of repetition moves were made on both sides. ' 

Game 2. -Unavailing ; but 24 R - Kt3, 24 R— K2 ; 25 RxP, 25 RxR ; 26 B — R6, 26 K— K2 ; 

leads to the same position as occurred. 

Game 2.— Best. If 24 PX^ ; 25 QxBP ch., 25 B— 62 ; 26 QxRP ch., 26 K- -Kt sq.; 27 R — 

R3, 27 B— I<4, (or 27 Q— 1<4 ; 28 R-Kt3 ch.), 28 Q— Kt5ch., 28 K— Esq.; 29 R— R8ch., win- 
ing the Q, and though Black has three pieces for it, the three passed Pawns and the exposed posi- 
tion of Black's King make White's game very strong. 

Game 2.— If QxP ch., then, of course, Black replies B— B2, threatening R — KKt sq., etc. 
Ga.we 2.— Black threatens PxP followed by R -R6, and all the Pawns on the Queen's side must 
fall. 

Judd v. Steinitz. 

Game 3.— If 10 QxP, he loses a piece by 10 R— K sq. ; II Kt— KS, n B—Q3; followed bv 

P-KB3. 

Game 3.— We prefer now u ... .Q— Q4 ; 12 PxB, 12 P-QR4; followed by B-R3. 

Game 3.— Threatening R— Kt3- 

Game 3.— He ought to have still continued with 20 R— Kt3, for if 20 QXQ ; 21 RxP ch., 21 K 

— R sq,; 22 RXBP clis. ch., 22 K-JCt sq. (or 22. .. .Q— K4 ; 23 RxR ch., 23 K— Kt2 ; 24 JXQ 

ch., 24 KxR ; 25 BxP + ). 23 R— Kt7 ch., and draws. 

Game 3.— As White evidently aimed at the square where this P stood, it was best not to givo up 

the P. 

Game 3. — Better was R— R2, but then Black would have played P— KR3, followed by doubling 

Rooks against the KRP, which would also be further attacked by the B if White in the meanwhile 

( 'Continued on page 51.) 

So THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 

GAME No. I. 

Move 30. KRXP- 

BLACK — ZUKERTORT. 

GAME No. 2. 

Move 24. B — R6. 

BLACK— STEINITZ. 

M/s. *'////////,"""'<///.'////, "" ' ' r/////'//,""""' 

WHITE— WINAWER. 

WHITE— ZUKERTORT. 

GAME No. 3. 

'Move 26....R— KKt4. 

BLACK— STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 4. 
Move 17 QXB. 

BLACK— MORPHY. 

Hi W 

^ s ^^ ^ 

«1 i 

WHITE — MAX JUDD. 

WHITE — PAULSEN. 

THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 51 

(Continued from page 49) . 

castled. It, however, 27 P— R6, 27 RxP ; 28 PxP ch., 28 K— Kt sq.; 29 O--O— O, 29 Kxl'i 
30 QR — R sq., 30 P — K6, and wins. 
. Game 3. — After this White's game is untenable. 

Paulsen v. Morphy. 

Game 4--5 KtxP, 5 KtxKt!; 6 P-Q4, 6 B-QKts 5 7 PXKt, 7 KtX? ; 8 Q— Q4, 8 KtxKt (or 8 
. ...BxKtch.jgPxB, 9 Kt— Kt4 ; 10 B— R3, 10 Kt-K3 ; 11 Q-K4, n Q— Kt4 ; 12 P— Kt3 + ); 

9 PXKt, 9 B— K2 ; 10 QB— KB4! is also greatly in White's favor. 

Game 4. — Black recovers his P, now given up, but greatly at cost of position. 

Game 4. — Though apparently losing time this is excellent play, as it compels the opponent to 

advance his QKtP, which makes Black's position oh the Queen's side very weak. 

Game 4.— Forced. If 8 KtxP ; 9 KtxKt, 9 RxKt ; 10 BxP ch., and should win. 

Game 4. — The only move, but more than good enough. If 9 B — Kt3, 9 QB — KKt5 ; 10 Q — K sq., 

10 P— Kt$ ; ii P— KR3, 11 B— R4 ; 12 P— Kt4 ; 12 B— KKt3+. 

Game 4. — A weak move at present, though remarkably strong if reserved after playing P — QB3 at 

this point, which would have given WJhite the superiority by far. 

Game 4. — This allows the adversary to block White's pieces for a long time. Much better was 12 

P— Q3, 12 P— Kt5 (there seems nothing better) ; 13 B— K3, and if 13 BxB ; 14 PxB, 14 RX 

P ; 15 Q— Q2+. 

Game 4.— Better than 15. .. .P— QR4 ; 16 BxP, 16 B— R3 ; 17 P— Kt$, 17 RxB ; 18 PxB, 18 
R — K3 ; i^P— QB4, 19 QR— K sq.; 20 B— R3, with the superior game. 

Game 4. — On principle he ought to have seized the very first opportunity for dislodging the adverse ,), 
which hampered his development. Q — R6 at once would have completely turned the tables and 
Black would never recover from the bad position of his Pawns on the Q side. Supposing 16 Q — R6, 
i6Q-Kt3orB4(or I6....QXQ ; 17 RxQ, 17 QR— K sq.; 18 B— Kt 4, 18 R-K2 ; 19 BxB, 
19 RXB ; 20 P — Q4, and must win, for with due precautions White will be able to support his QP 
sufficiently and then advance P— QB4) ; 17?— Q4, 17 QR— K sq.; 18 B— K3, 18 P— QB4; 19 PxP, 
19 BxP 5 20 Q— Kt7, 20 B — Q3 ; 21 P— QB4, with a winning advantage. 

Game 4. — White cannot be blamed for not seeing the most wonderful combination that the opponent 
had prepared. The move in the text was very forcible still. But Q — Q sq. was now the only right 
move, whereupon, no doubt, Black would have answered P — QB4, with the better game. 
Game 4. — One of the most charming poetical Chess compositions that has ever been devised in prac- 
tical play. 

Game 4. — Of course if R— Kt sq., Black takes and mate follows in two more moves by R — K8 ch. 
But full justice has not been done to Morphy's extraordinary position judgment, which shows it- 
self on examination of the following lines of defence : 20 Q— Q3, 20 P— 64 ; 21 Q -64 ch., 21 K— 
B sq.; 22 Q— KR4 (or 22 Q— KB4, 22 BxR !; 23 QxP ch., 23 R— 63 ; 24 QXRP, 24 R— K8, 
and wins), 22 BxR ; 23 QxP, 23 K — B2, and wins either by R — K8 or B- R6 accordingly. 

Game 4.— Black would have won much more elegantly by 22 R — Kt7 (threatening RxRP) ; 23, 

Q— Q3, 23 RxBP ch. ; 24 K— Kt sq., 24 K— Kt7 ch.; 25 K moves, 25 R— Kt8 mate. We 
think it right to mention that this variation was first discovered by the author, though it was after- 
ward claimed by another player now deceased. 

Game 4. — After this White must give up the Queen again, and his game is hopeless. 
Game 4. — His best defence was now K— Kt2. 
Game 4.— For if 29 BxB, 29 R (R3)XP ch., and the other R mates next move. 

52 THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 

Game 5. Game 6. Game 7. 

London Chess Con- 
gress, 1883. 

v] 
ENGLISCH 

ROSENTHAL. 
P-K4 

I'tenna Chess Con- 
gress, 1872, / 

V 

ROSENTHAL 
STEINITZ. 

9QKt-B3 

Game 6— Cont'd. 
99Kt-B2 

London Chess Con 
gress, 1883. 

BLACKBURNE 
STEINITZ. 

Game 7— Cont'd. 

lp-K4 
«KKt-B3 

*QKt-B3 

"QKt— B3 
0Kt— B3 55 

.B— Kt5 

Jp-KKt3 

.0-0 

,-KtxP 

«P-Q3 

B^K32 

UUQ—B2 

9qP-B5 60 

7B_Kt5 47 

n TT- -I?- j T/'/> e./5 

^JVJVL JV^ OO 

KB-QB4 57 

^UP— KKt4 
9 .QR-Q sq. 

Kt— B3 64 
7B-K2 65 

'BxKt 48 

'P-Q3 

flo-o 

Q-Kt3 

'O— 0 

flo-o 

P— KR3 
QQB-KR449 

"0-0 
gP-KB4 

25R__Q4 

»Kt-K2 
QB-B3 

"B— Kts 

1(1B-Q3 58 

97R-Q sq. 

Jp-Q3 66 

1"B-Q2? SO 
..R-Ktsq. 

lUp_Q4 
11PXP 

"/QXBP 

lOKt-Q2 67 
. . B— R6 

-Up— QKt3 51 

KtXKt 

28B-Q4 

llKt-K4 

12R_Ksq. 

4 qR— K SC1- 

P-B3 

"«R— Ksq. D 
SUB— 62 

1"KXB 68 
. nB~K2 

1 "P— KKt4 
4 jKtxP 52 

13R_Qsq. 
Q_B2 

n . B— B sq. 61 

Up-KB3 69 
, .P— B4 

4 I.BXP D 

^^—65 59 

K — JSJ 

^QR-Qsq. 

A"UE>v/r> c *% 
JL /\Jt OO 

,DPXP 

Q_KB2 

O^Q_B7 62 

10P_B3 70 
1RB-B4 

iOR_K4 54 

K7-BB34 

niQ— KtSch. 

1DB-Q2 
4 yBxKt 

uur\ K so 72 

9QR-Q3! 73 

1'KtxP 
. oP-KB4 

17p-QKt3 

0_Kt3 

RXB 

^URXP 74 
9 .R-R3 D 75 

BX^3 

18Q-B3 

,,P-KR4 

l"Kt-Bsq. 

. QP-KS 71 

L 4g_K2 76 
9(-Q— R6ch. 

iOQXB 
,onBxKt&wins. 

nRKR-Ksq. 

Q7Kt-Q3? 63 

9RKt— K6ch. 

"OK— Kt sq. 
9RR— B8ch. and 

zu 

Iw 

U/QXKtP 
Black wins. 

O 4 ^ 

""White mates 
next move. 

— KR4 

THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAMK. 53 
Englisch v. Rosenthal. 

Game 5. —We prefer Kt— K2 which prepares P—QB3, and with tin- vicw-.t' biin-in/ this Kt to 
Kt3. 
Game 5. — As usual, it was unadvisablc to exchange the B for a Kt. The correct play was Kt 

K2. 

Game 5.— B— K3 would be our choice. If Black had played well he would have neutralized the 
advantage of the two Bishops. 

Game 5. — Weak. He could have, at least, equalized the game by BxKt followed by P— KKt4, 
which would have kept White's QB shut in. 

Game 5. — Waste of time which could have been better employed by R — K sq. at once, for instance. 
Game 5. — A bold sacrifice, butwe doubt its absolute correctness. 

Game 5. — With this imprudent exchange he justifies White's venture in actual play. But analysis 
would, we think, prove that 15. . . QKt — Kt sq. ; 16 Q — B3, (we see nothing more promising), 16 
. . . .K— Kt2 ; 17 Q— Kt3, 17 Kt— R4; 18 Q— R4 18 P— KB3 is in Black's favor. 
Game 5. — As good or bad almost as anything else for White is sure to obtain an irresistible attack 

by r— KB4. If, for instance now, 18 P— QR3 ; 17 BxKt, 17 BxB ; 18 P— Q5, 18 B -Kt2 ; 19 

Q— Q4 ; 19 K — Kt2 ; 20 R — K3, with a winning attack. 

Rosenthal v. Steinitz. 

Game 6. — By a transposition of moves a Three Knights' game position is soon arrived at. 

Game 6. — In Col. 12 we give 18. . . .KKt — B3 ; as Black's best move, but neither is satisfactory, 

and we think the King's fianchetto will have to be abandoned in the Three Knights' game. 

Game 6. — Anyhow wrong, for this B is better placed at K2 in this opening. But the strong-. 

est move at this juncture is, we believe, P — KR4. 

Game 6. — Much superior was, undoubtedly, Q — Q3. 

Game 6. — Of course if P — QB4, White would first attack the Q by B— K4. 

Game 6. —This advance is very weak and soon causes the loss of this P. 

Game 6.— Forced. If R— K sq., Black would still capture the B followed by Q -Kt8 ch. 

Game 6. — Threatening RxKt. 

Game 6. — Accelerating defeat, but his game was already untenable as he was two Pawns behind 

with by far the mipcriec. position. 

Blackburne vs. Steinitz. 

Game 7. — Up to this the moves of both parties are identical with those in the foregoing game with 
the exception that White's 2d and 3d moves were reversed in actual play. 
Game 7.— Compare Col. 12 for the stronger continuation 7 KtXKt. 

Game 7. — Much better was 9. . . .P — Q4- If White exchanged in the centre it would have led to a 
position very similar to that arrived at in the previous game on Black's I2th move with the position 
of the defence slightly superior. If, however, White advanced P— K$, the Kt could retreat to 
Q2, with an even game. 

Game 7.— Much inferior to Kt — K sq., followed by P — QB3, in case White replied B— R6, after 
which Black would obtain an excellent game by P — KB4- 

Game 7.— No more satisfactory was 12 KtxBch.; I3 KtXKt, I3 KxB ; 14 Q— Q4 ch., 14 

K— Kt sq , (if 14 P KB3 ; 15 Kt— R4, or Q2 followed by P— KB4, with a strrong attack) ; 15 

Q— B6, 15 B— K3) or 15 Kt— B3 ; 16 QxQ followed by Kt— Qs); i6Kt— Q4, with an excellent 

attack, for if 16 Kt— B3 ; 17 QxQ, 17 QRXQ (if KtXQ White answers effectually Kt— 

Kt5); 1 8 KtXKt with the superior game. 

Game 7.— If 13. .. .P- KB4 ; 14 P— KB4, 14 KKt— 63 ; 15 PX?, 15 KtX? ; 16 
Kt ; 17 Kt— Q5, with a fine attack. 

(Continued on page 5 5.) 

54 THE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 

GAME No. 5. 

White's 1 5th move. OBxKtP. 

BLACK— ROSENTHAL. 

WHITE— ENGLISCH. 

GAME NO. 6. 

Move 29 ....R — K sq.. 

BLACK— STEINITZ. 

• I 

"///, w//. 

Ill ill is i» 

GAME No. 7, 

Move 24 R — R3. 

BLACK — STEINITZ. 

WHITE— ROSENTHAL. 

WHITE— BLACKBURNE. 

- 

1 HE DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME AND THREE KNIGHTS' GAME. 55 

(Continued from pagf 53) . 
( lame 7. — This weakens the QP. B — Q2 at once was certainly better. 

(lame 7.— A puzzling plan of attack, but not as correct and sure as OKt— K2, threatening Kt— 
KB4 and preparing P — QB4. 

Game 7.— This was a grave error. 22 . . . Kt— Kt3 ; 23 Q— B6 ch. (if 23 Kt— K* or R— Q3, Black 

may safely answer RxP), 23 K— Kt sq. ; 24 Kt— K4, 24 Kt— (^4 ; 25 RxKt (nothing better), 

25 PxR J 26 Kt— Kt5, 26 R — Kt2 was sufficient to secure Black's superiority. 

Game 7. — A beautiful move that carries the victory by force. 

Game 7. — 23. . . .P — KR3 was the only hope, though not of much use against best play on account 
of the continuation ; 24 Q— B6 ch., 24 K— Kt sq. (if K— R2, White answers Kt— K4, threatening 
Kt — Kt5 ch. followed accordingly by R— R3 ch. or Kt — 67) ; 25 R— Kt3, 25 R— Kt2 best (if 25 

RyP, White wins by 26 RxP ch., 26 OxR, followed by 27 Q— B8 ch. and R— 67 ch.) ; 26 

Kt— K4, with an irresistible attack. 

Game 7. — This powerful stroke leaves Black without resource. 

Game 7.— Giving an opportunity for a brilliant finish. But there was no help. If P— KR4, White 

of course would reply RxP, and 24 R— K2 was equally useless, as Black would answer Q — R6 

ch., followed by Kt— K4, winning easily. 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

This opening, which is one of the strongest in practical play as well as in theory, is 
already mentioned by old Italian writers, but derived its name and its introduction into 
public favor chiefly from the match between Edinburgh and London played in 1826-28. 
The most formidable attack in this opening is the one in which the P is immediately 
retaken on the fourth move, thus opening the Q file for White and liberating the KBP for 
a timely advance. We think, however, that our new defence pointed out in Col. 3 with 
its simplifying tendencies ought to give the second player a satisfactory game which, at 
/any rate, does not subject him to such complicated attacks as Black has to sustain in 
most other variations. First in order, however, we have placed an entirely new line of 
development for White in answer to a move which we have, ourselves, favored in practice 
almost invariably, namely: 4. . . .Q — RS- The propositions which we make in Cols. I 
and 2 for the purpose of counteracting this sally, initiate a new line of attack, resting 
chiefly on the strength of White's combined two Bishops and Black's inability to castle 
in time. It seems to us that the form of attack which we suggest has the advantage of 
reducing Black's resources" practically to one main line of play on the 5th move, and 
again, later on, the defence has no better option than to exchange B for Kt and to 
leave White with the powerful combination of two Bishops. White's Kt is also then 
better posted for the attack against the weak QBP by being placed at QBj, whereas in 
other variations the Q2 square forms the basis of operations for White's Kt and the 
recovery of the P is made more difficult. 

In the next two columns the idea of advancing 7. . . .P — Q4 with the view of giving 
up the QBP is examined. Col. 5 represents the leading form of Black's counter attack 
as suggested by Herr von Gottschall in the Deutsche Schachzeitung which rests chiefly 
on the move 12 ... .Kt — Kt5. In Col. 6 we propose quite an original line of play in- 
volving the sacrifice of a R for Black. We think that this variation if adopted in practice 
is likely to lead to various brilliancies. The fact that White's Kt is out of play practically 
reduces the sacrifice to that of the exchange only, and the undeveloped state of White's 
game and his inability to castle seem to us to give Black sufficient attacking compensa- 
tion for the venture. 

In Col. 7 we differ again from the authorities who, we think, for insufficient reasons, 
let the QKt be developed at QR3, instead of in the natural way at QB3. It seems to us 
that the sacrifice of the P which we afterward recommend, gives White a powerful 
attack. 

In the next three columns we dispose of three different lines of attack with some 
novel modifications in each and demonstrate them in favor of the the defence. But in 
Col. u, which is a variation of Col. 10, the attack wins on account of an unfavorable 
move for Black, which hitherto has held good in theory and practice, owing to the sim- 
ple move 1 1 B — B2, which we propose, having been overlooked. 

Finally in Col. 12 we analyze in a new way the strongest continuation in this form 
of opening, namely : 7 B — Kt5, and we think we show satisfactorily, though in a novel 

manner, that White ought to obtain the advantage. 
*6 

58 THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

In Col. 1 3 we think the Fraser attack in the Scotch Gambit receives a fair answer, 
showing that the second player ought to maintain the P without being subjected to much 
disadvantage in position. In the other columns of that page we have made different 
selections from variations already known with slight alterations and additions. 

In Col. 19 we show that an attack by 6 B — KKt5 which hitherto has been held to 
lead to an even game is untenable and leads to disaster if continued with our new move 
8. . . .K — Q sq. Col. 20 is an ingenius variation quoted from the Chess MontJily, 
but not taken up in books on the game as far as we are aware. Col. 2 1 was already 
given in the International Chess Magazine in a game between Senor Golmayo and 
Captain Mackenzie, but has not otherwise been mentioned in theoretical treatises. In 
Col. 22 we endorse a defence hitherto held weak, while another which was considered 
the best is in the next two columns proved to be unfavorable, and new lines of play not 
yet noticed are introduced into the columns with notes. 

Cols. 25 to 27 contain novelties by Professor Berger first published in the Inter- 
national Chess Magazine. Col. 28 is taken from a game between the author and Zuker- 
tort. Some original analysis will, however, be found in the last two columns of that 
table. 

In Col. 3 1 we propose to show that the capture of a P which hitherto was con- 
sidered unsound may be safely adopted, and by a little alteration in the continuation 
offered by the authorities for the defence, we think that we prove our contention. In 
the next column a line of play which occurred between Messrs. Rosenthal and Bird is 
quoted and contains, we believe, the best moves on each side in that variation. Col. 33 
gives a new successful defence to a theoretical attack while the next column shows that 
the hitherto authorized defence merely leads to an even game. Col. 35 contains some 
explanatory additions of a complicated counter-attack as examples, and in Col. 36 the 
last two moves on each side are new, and we believe a great improvement for the defence 
of Count Vitzthounes' attack. 

In Col. 37 the defence 5. . . .Q — 63 in last-named attack is, we believe, shown 
to be dangerous at least, though it used to be approved of by the authorities. The 
next two columns contain obsolete defences which, however, are of some theoretical 
value, being treated in a new manner and may be of use to beginners. In Col. 40, how- 
ever, 4. ... B — Kt5 ch. seems to us to be quite as good as 4. ... B — 64, and perhaps 
even better, for we believe that the main line of attack by 6 O — O which used to be 
dreaded formerly is sufficiently met by our new answer 6. . . .Q — 63. The next two col- 
umns show the result of other defences and end favorably for the attack. 

On the next table the most noteworthy innovations are those of Col. 46, as the same 
position may arise in the Danish Gambit and we propose to show by a new process that 
the two Pawns may be maintained without danger. In the following columns of that 
table we show the danger of other defences that have hitherto been recommended, and 
especially the line of attack in Col. 48 will be found interesting. 

In the last table some inferior defences are examined, chiefly by our own inde- 
pendent analysis, and in some variations our conclusions differ from those of former 
authors. 

Tin: SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

59 

,KKt-B3 

The Pawn is taken with the Pawn 0 

•PXP 

First Continuation 

First Defence (Counter 

Second Defence 

4 

KtxP 

Third Defence 

Second Continuation - - - - 

First Defence 

Second Defence .... 

Third Defence 

Fourth Defence .... 
Third Continuation - - - - - 

First Defence 

Second Defence .... 

: Pawn is taken with the Knight Q 

»KtxP 

First Continuation 

41 

4g=ET 

V-B3? 

3- 

-5 

.QKt-B3! 

5 

KKt-B3' 

5 

Kt— 

rB-K3 

OQ=KT 

CB-K3 

— '-^trP " V— 

5 

1B— Kts ch. 

5 

B-QB4 

«PXP 

OKI— B3 

4 

Second Continuation 

KtxKt 

- - Cols, i, 2. 

- - Col. 13. 

Col. 14. 
Cols. 15 to 18. 

. 

- - Cols. 4 to 12. 

- - Cols. 29, 30. 
Cols. 19, 25 to 28. 

Cols. 20 to 24. 

- Cols. 3i to 57. 

- - . Col. 38. 

- - . Col. 39. 

Cols. 40 to 45. 

- - Cols. 47, 47. 

- - - Col. 48. 

Cols 

Col. 53. 

6o 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 
0KKt-B3 

KtxP 

IP— K4 

1 2 

f A 

ft S~\ I/" A T> — 

"v^ivt — i>3 

3 

^PXP 

4 

1 * 

5 6 

qPXB 

QKt-B3! 2 

4B-B4 
rB-K3 

rB-K3 9 

&B-Kt5 
pKt-Kts 

OQ-K2 
nQKt-B3 

°P-QB3 

"QXP ch. 3 
B-K2 

BXKt 

l*KKt— K2 

/BxKtch. 
pKtxB . 

/Kt-B3 
pBxKt 

'P— Q4 1O 
8 «Kt-KtS 11 

°Q-Q5 °QxKtP 
QB-Q3 qB-B3 

"QXB 
gKt-Q5 

"BXB 
qQxB 12 

ORKt— K2 4 aQ— R6 

t^r 

. nKtxBP 

00-0 
i(]KtxP 

lUp_QR3 5! "K— Q sq. 
<(JQ— R5+ D <<B— B4 

eluKt— K2 

1"R— Ktsq. 
11PXP 

lUpxP! 

11 lip Q^ 

P-Q3- 

llKt-B4 
4 0Q— QB5 13 

KtXKt 1J-R— Qsq. 
4 QPxKt 4 oQ— B sq. 3 

QXPch.+ 

7 

Q-K4C1, 

, .PxKt 15 . .P— KKt3 

PxKt 

. .Q— QB3 ..K— 62 

t rp— QKt3 

. ,-K-Q sq. , -B-K2 

R_Ksq.+ 

AOQXBP i0R— Q6+ 
, RP-KR3 

Column i. Move n. Q — 
BLACK. 

16 

Move 12. KtxQBP. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 61 

Col. i.— If 3 ____ P — Q3 ; 4 P— 63 with the superior game. 

Col. i. —By a transposition of moves the same position may be arrived at in one of the ordinary 
variations already in vogue, viz.: 5 Kt — Kt5, 5 B— Kt5 ch.; 6 QKt— B3 ! 

Col. i.— If 6 . . .K— Q sq.; 7 Q— Qs, 7 Q— K2 ; 8 P— QR3 and we prefer White, for if 8. ... 
Kt— 63 ; 9 Q 

Col. i.— Or 9 ____ Kt— Kt5 ; 10 Kt— Kt5, 10 KtxB ch.; u QxKt, u QxQ (or II ____ Q— K4 
ch , 12 K— Q sq.); 12 PxQ, 12 K— Q sq.; 13 6—64, 13 P— Q3 ; f4 QR— QB sq. + . Or if 9. . . . 
Q-K4ch.; 10 B— K3, etc. 

Col. i.— If 10 ____ O— O ; ii Kt— Kt5, u Q-Kt3 ; 12 B— K3, 12 Q— R4; 13 P— QB3, 13 Kt— Q4; 
14 P— QKt4-f , for if 14 ____ KtxB, White answers BxP ch. 

Col. 2.— No better is 10. . . .Q— K3 ch. ; 11 K— B sq., n K— Q sq. ; 12 KR— Kt sq., 12 P— KKt3 ; 
13 KB -Kt4, 13 P— 64 ; 14 B— Kt$ ch., 14 KKt— K2 ; 15 Q— Q2, threatening R— K sq.+ 

Col. 2.— After 13 K -Kt3 ; 14 B— K3 ch., 14 K— R4 ; 15 Q— 65 ch., 15 P— QKt4 ; 16 B— Q2 

ch. White mates in two more moves. 

Col. 3.— Or 8 Q— Q3, 8 KtxB ; 9 QxKt, 9 P— Q3-— 

Col. 4. —If 5 P— QB3, 5 Q— K2 ; 6 Q— Q3, 6 BxKt ; 7 PxB, 7 Q— Kt5 ch. and wins. Or if 5 
KtxKt, 5 Q— B3 ; 6 Q-B3, 6 QxKt- 

.0. Col. 4. — An ingenious defence first adopted by Dr. Isaacson against Zukertort. Compare Interna- 
tional Chess Magazine, Vol. 2, p. 210, July, 1886. 

1. Col. 4.— 8 KtxKt, 8 QxKt leads to an even game. 

.2. Col. 4.— Or 9 PxB, 90— O ; 10 PxP, 10 R— Q sq.; 1 1 KtXBP, 1 1 Q— K4 ; 12 KtXR, 12 KtX 
P; 13 K— B?., 13 Kt— KB3 ; 14 Q— K sq., 14 Kt— Kt5 ch. ; 15 K— Ktsq., 15 R— Q8 ; 16 Q— 
K2, 16 KtxKP ; 17 K— B2, 17 Kt-Kt$ ch.; 18 K— 63 best, 18 Q— B4 ch.; 19 K— Kt3, 19 R— 
Q6 ch.; 20 QxR, 20 Q — 67 ch. and wins. 

.3. Col. 4.— Or 13 Q— Q2, 13 QKt — K2 ; 14 Kt— Kt5, (otherwise Black will prevent the escape of the 

KtbyP— QR3) 14 Q— K4 ch. ; 15 B— K2, 15 KtX? ; 16 O— O, 16 Kt— 65 ; 176—64,17 

Kt— R5 + . If 13 Q— KB4, 13 Kt— K4 ; followed mostly by Q— K2. 

.4. Col. 5. — A move suggested by Herr von Gottschall in the Deutsche Schachzeitung. 
,5. Col. 5.— If Kt— QR3 Black answers forcibly B— Kt5- 

16. Col. 5.— Continued 17 Kt— R3 (if 17 Q— Q2, 17 R— K8 ch., and mate's next move), 17 QR — 

B sq ; 18 B— 64, 18 R— K6 ; 19 Q— Qz, 19 Q— Kt6, and should win. 

17. Col. 6. — White cannot give up the Q for another R as his Kt has no escape, nor can he play Q — 
KB2 as Black could win by R— Q8 ch. Likewise, if 12 Q— K2, 12 Kt— K4 ; 13 Kt— Q2, 13 Kt— 
Q6 ch. ; 14 K— Q sq., 14 B— Kt$ and wins. Again if 12 Q— QB2, Black replies Kt— Q4 with a 
. fine attack. 

,P-K4 KKt-B3 

lp-K4 " "QKt— B3 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 
,KtXP 

B— 64 

'KKt— K2 

BxKt 
PXB 

P-K5 

8 

9 

10 

11 

7Kt-B2 20 -B- 

BXB 

_ »P-KB4 
P— Q4 23 'Q— Kt3! 

"BxKt 
21 QPXB 

«PXP 

'O— O 

.Kt— B4 22,nBxP 

IB— B4 1UQ— KKt4 

B— K2 D . . QKt— Q2 
11.1 

12 

18 

O-O-O+ 1940P— KR4 

R-Q sq. 

uKtxKt 

9PxKt QV~V 
B— Ktc rh "HvK 

ch. "BxKt 

Kt"B3 

— K5 . . B— 62 ! 

)_B7+ D HB— K3 

12 

7B-QKt5_S 
IP— QR3 S 

pB— R4 

OP— OKH 

lvt-K4 

lop— QR3 

. ,B— K2+ 25 

Column 7. Move n. B— K2. 

BLACK. 

* W t •» ^ 

"^ 

Column 10. Move n Q— B;. 

BLACK. 

'-- ^^ 

• 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 63 

18. Col. 7. — If White is allowed to castle on the King's side, we consider that he has the better game. 

19. Col. 7. — Black cannot save the P without subjecting himself to a vehement attack. If, for instance, 

12 Q— R6 ; 13 QR— Kt sq., 13 B— K3 ; 14 R— Kt3, 14 Q— R$ ; 15 Kt— Kt$, 15 O— O— O ; 

1 6 B— Kt5, 1 6 Q— KS ; 17 P— 63 and wins. 

20. Col. 8. — A move introduced by Dr. Meitner in the Vienna Tournament of 1882. 

21. Col. 8 —If B— Q3 or Kt— Q2 Black may answer P— Q4. 

22. Col. 8.— To prevent P— KB4. If roP— KKt4, 10 P— Q4 ; 11 PxP, " Kt— Kt5 ; threatening 
Kt — 67 ch. , and recovering the P with the better game. 

Col. 9. — A game between Zukertort and Anderssen continued thus: 7 P — Q3 ; 8 O — O, g 

P— KR4 ; 9 P— KB4, 9 Q— Kt3 ; 10 Q— Q3, 10 P— R5 ; n 6—63, 11 P— 64 ; 12 P— KS, 12 PX 
P ; 13 KtxKt, 13 P— K5 ; 14 KtxKt, 14 BxKt ; 15 Q— B2 ? Here we prefer 15 BX?, 15 PX 
B ; 1 6 Q — 64 with the superior game. 

Col. 9. — This variation so far is given by Salvioli. 

125. Col. II. — To prepare O — O, which we consider better than O — O — O as Black would be bound to 
castle on the Q side, and White's attack will be strengthened by placing the K on the other wing. 

Col. 12. — For 7 B — 64. (See Illustrative game between Tschigorin and Schiffers.) The move in 

the text is the invention of L. Paulsen, and is, we believe, the strongest at this juncture. 

Col. 12. —Likewise unfavorable is 7. . . PxKt ; 8 PxB, 8 Q— Kt3 ; 9 O— O, 9 P— Q4, (or 9 

QXKP ; 10 Kt— 63, 10 Q-B4 (10 Q— Kt3 is no better as White proceeds with P— Q5, fol- 
lowed by QB— KB4); 11 P-Q5, n Kt— K4 ; 12 B— Q4, 12 O— O ; 13 P— KB4, 13 Kt— Kt5 ; 14 
P— KR3, 14 Kt— KB3 ; 15 P— KKt4+) ; 10 PxP, 10 KtX? 5 n Q— 63 + . Again if 7. . . .Kt— 
Q sq. ; 8 O— O, 8 Q— QKt3 ; 9 Q— K2, 9 O— O ; 10 P— QKt4, 10 BxKt ; n BxB, with an ex- 
cellent attack. 

Col. 12.— Not 10 O— O, in which case Black releases himself by Kt— QB5. 

>4 
,P— K4 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 
0KKt-B3 op-°4 

.KtxP 

lp-K4 

13 

-KKt-KB3 29 

14 

rQ-Q3 

OQKt— B3 

15 

-Kt— Kts 

UPXP 

16 

0 

17 18 

RB-Q2 

B — K2 3O 

RKtxKt 

B-Kts ch. 34 

"Q-K2! 31 
7QB-KKt5 

nKt-B3 '< 

"C)XP ch. 
13 ,,B-K3 

OgxPch. l 

B-K2 

OQXKPch. 
7B-K2 

'Kt— B3 
nK*~B3 

i KB— QKt5 

'B— R4 

'QXKtP 

/K-Qsq. 
0-0 

"Q-Qsq. 

qBxKt 

^BxKt 

OQ—Q4J 35 

Bg-R6 

-KtxP ch. 

"BXB 

QKtXB nQxB 3 

ijKt-Qs , 

OKtXP 

,nQ-K3 

9p-QR3 
jn<?XB 

"K — Q sq. 

jnKtXR 

"Q— KB5 "P— QR3 

jKt-Q4 32 , 

.P-KKt3 

QXQ- 

1 1 P"B3 

l^Kt— R3 37 IDg— K4 
..QKt— KB3 HKt-R3 

TK? 

nQxKt 

PXQ- 

H R— K sq. ch. 
. nB— K2 

HR-Ksq. 11P-QKt4 
.„?— KKt3 10B~B3 

1 

«R— Ksq. 
qB— K5 

..R-Bsq. 36 

. nKt— QB3 . qKR— K sq. 

UP-KB3 + 

luKt-K4+D 

lup— QKt3-f 1"Q-OB4 
. QR-Qsq. 

Column I4. Move 1 1 . , . „ Q — Q sq. 
BLACK. 

Column 1 6. Move I3 Kt — K4. 

BLACK. 

WHITE, 

WHITE. 

Tin: SCOTCH GAMBIT. 65 

A<V 

,,\*y+$ 

h* 
•& 

Col. 13. — This attack is the invention of Mr. G. B. Fraser of Dundee. 
Col. 13.— If 6 B— KS, 6 Kt— Kt5 ; 7 Kt— 

Col. i3.-After 6. . . .B— Kt5 ch. ; 7 P— 63, 7 B-B4 ; 8 O-O, 8 Kt— B3 ; 9 P— QKt4, 9 B -K2 ; 
loKt— Q2, loQ— Q4; n B— 64, 11 Q— KR4 ; 12 R— K sq., 12 P— Q3 ; 13 P— KR3, 13 Kt— 
Q sq.; 14 Kt— B sq.+ Or if 6. . . .P— Q3 ; 7 O— O, 7 Q— K2 ; 8 R— K sq., 8 B— K3 ; 9 KB— 
QKt5, 9 Q-Q2 ; 10 Kt— Q4, 10 KKt— K2 ; 11 QB— Kt5, 11 P— QR3 ; 12 B— R4, 12 P— QKt4; 
13 KtxB, 13 PxKt ; 14 B— Kt3, 14 P— Q4 ; 15 P— QR4, followed by P— R-5 with the superior 
game. } 

Col. 13.— Or ii B— Kt5, II B— K2 ; 12 Q— K2, 12 P— QR3 + . 

Col. 14.— Or 7 Kt— Q2, 7 B— 64 ; 8 P— KKts, 8 Q— R4 ; 9 Kt— Kt3, 9 QB— KKts ; 10 B— 
IOR—Qsq.; 11 Q— 64, ii ByB ; 12 PxB, 12 B— B6+. 

34. Col. 15. — It makes no difference in our opinion whether this ch. be given at once, or after QxP ch. 

The reason against the latter given by some authorities is, that after 5 QxPch.;6 B— K3, 6 B^ 

Kt5 ch.; White may answer 7 Kt— Q2, but with the continuation 7/\ .B— R4 ; 8 P — QB3 (we 
see nothing better), 8 Q — Q4 ; We arrive at the same position as in the main columns. 

35. Col. 15.— If 8. . . Q— Kt3 ; 9 Kt— QB4, 9 P— QR3 ; 10 Kt— Q4, 10 B— Kt3 ; 11 KtxKt, 11 QX 
Kt ; 12 BxB, 12 PXB ; 13 Q-Q4, 13 Q— KB3 ; 14 QxQKtP.. ! 

36. Col. 1 6. — The above variations occurred between Messrs. Rosenthal and Steinitz in the Baden 

Tournament, 1870, with the following continuation : 13 Kt — Q4 ; 14 Kt — 64 (if 14 Q— Kt3, 14 

p_Q3 . I5 K— Q sq., 15 RXB ; 16 KxR, 16 B— Kt$ ch.; 17 K— K sq^wrKt— Q$ ; 18 PxKt, 
18 Q— K4ch., and wins), 14. . . .BxP ch.; I5PXB, 15 KtxP ; 16 Kt— % 16 RxKt ; I7BXR, 
17 KtxQ ; 18 RxKt, 18 QxP+. 

37. Col. 17.— 10. . . .P— QR3; 11 KKt— QB3, 11 KKt— K2 ; 12 P— KKt3, 12 Q— R3 ! may, we believe, 
also be played with safety. 

38. Col. 1 8. — The moves in this column occurred between Messrs. Blackburne and Steinitz in the 4th 
game of their match of 1876. 

89. Col. 18.— In the sixth game of the same match White played 10 KKt — R3, and then followed : n 
• • • -Q— Q5 ; !2 Q— Kt5 ch., 12 Q— 63 ; 13 Q— Q2, 13 QxKtP-f 

66 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

,P— K4 0KKt— B3 

qP~Q4 

.KtXP 

19 

-QKt-B3 

20 

rKtxKt 

^Kt-B3 

21 

"PXP 
22 

23 24 

"B— Kts 
QB-KKts? 

&KtPxKt 
gB-03 

Op— KR3 

p~X? 

UK"f ~K e 
MJvt — JV^ 

7Q-^3 

Q— K2? 
7Q~K2 

'QXB 
BKt-KtS 

'Kt— Kt5 
,0-0 

'PXP 

pB— Kt5 ch. 

'Kt— Kt4 
nQ-KKt3 

/Kt-Q4 
nP-QB4 

OK-Q sq!D40 
QQ-B3 41 

"KB— QB4 
P-KR3 42 

OB— 92 

OKt-K3 
nB-03 

"B-R3 
QP-KB4 q 

JQXQ 

"KtxKP 
R-Ksq 

SQXB 

in°~° 

«P— B3 

inPxP 

OQ— O— O "Q— Kt5 ch. 
nQ-KB2 nK-Q sq. 

,.Kt-R3 

liig-Bs 

nQ-K2 

1UB-K2 

^Kt-Q2 

1UQXP 

1 o-o 

AUg_Kt5 ch 46 !UKt— Kt3 
..B-Q2 ..P-QKts 

A1BxKKt 

iio— o 

. nQxKt 

Ho-o 

l 0Kt-Kt3+44 

1J-P — Q4+ 4 

55 AJ-QxKtP AlKt— Bsq. 
. nPxKt . nB— Q2 

12Kt-Q5 + 

l"QXPch. 
qK-R sq. 

12 

4 qQXB+ 47 , «Kt— B3 

i"BxP+ D 43 

• J \; 5 •" 

Column 19. Move 8 K — Q sq. 

BLACK. 

Column 20. Move 24 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

THE SCOTCH UAM1UJ. 67 

40. Col. 19.— 8 B— R4 ; 9 Q— Q2, 9 P— QR3 ; 10 Kt— Rj, 10 BxKt ; 11 QxB, 1 1 (>XQ, gives 

Black hardly any advantage. 

(41. Col. 19.— If gP— QR3, 9 B— R4; 10 P— QKt4, 10 B— Kt3 and wins, for White's KKt has no escape. 

42. Col. 20.— Or 9 QB— 64, 9?— KKt4 ; 10 B— Kt3, 10 P— KR4 ; 11 P— KR3, u P— R$ ; 12 B— R2, 

12 KtxB ; 13 KxKt, 13 P— Kt5 ; 14 PxP, 14 Q— Kt4 ; 15 B— K2, 15 Q— 65 ch.; 16 K— R sq. 
(if 1 6 K— Kt sq., 16 P— R6, and wins); 17 KBXP+ 

43. Col. 20.— Continued 14 PxB!, 14 Q— B6 ch.; 15 K— R2, 15 B— Q3, and wins. This fine 
variation was first pointed out in the London Chess Monthly and afterward occurred in a match 
between Messrs. Delmar and Lipschtltz. 

t. Col. 21. — The moves of this variation occurred in a match game between Senor Golmayo and Cap- 
tain Mackenzie. We slightly prefer White, whose Pawns on the Queen's side are compact, while 
the Black Pawns are separated. 

45. Col. 22. — Black has the majority of Pawns on the Queen's side and may continue accordingly with 
Kt — QB4 or B — QB4, with the superior game. 

>46. Col. 23.— Or 10. . . .Kt— Kt3 ; 11 P— 65, 11 BxB, n PxKt ; 12 B— R3, 12 

r47. Col. 23.— Continued 14 QxR (or 14 K— Kt2 ; 15 6—63, 15 B— Kt5 ; 16 BxB+) ; 15 

Q— R6 ch., 15 K— Kt sq. ; 16 K— K2, 16 Q— Kt7 ; 17 Kt— 

P-K4 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 
0KKt-B3 

KtxP 

*P— K4 

25 

26 27 28 

4 

29 30 

*Kt-B3 

-QKt-B3 

B— B4 
cKt-B5 58 

OB— Kt5 

BKtxKt 

Op-g4 59 

RKtxPch. 60 

KtPxKt 

UK— B sq. 
7Kt-R5 61. 

'Q—K2 

'O— 0 55 

n n°-° 

'Q-RS 

0Kt-Kt3 

8p-Q4 
QB-KKtS 

UP-B4 0P_ Q4 
QQ-B2 PXP 

OKt-B3 
B-K2 .PXP 

"P— B4 
QB-Kt5ch. ( 

«O— 0 5O "PXP 
irjB-Q2 }()B~Q3 jnB-KKt5? | 

"Kt— K4 JKKt— Kt5 
. pP— KR3 , [)B~K3 

,Q-Q3 48, 

0— O— O , . O— O— O . . Kt— K2 

11PXB 

PXP 

^ * p— Q5 51 11 P— B5 1 1 B— Q3 
|9Kt-Ktsq. 19B-K2 19Kt-Kt3 

KtxKP 

L"BxBch. •L^B— R3! A«P— KR3 
qKtxB+ 52 . qB-K3 53 . qB-Q2 

,n^2511 

57 

fi— B4+ 63 

Column 29. Move 10. . . .R — KKt sq. 

Column 3o. Move 12 .... Kt — Q5- 
BLACK. 

^^^ A 

* wii'S- wm 

'!• 

^ i^ ,^,'^^y ,/fanfc 
p^ - '® 

«|^2J 

WHITE. 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 69 

Col. 25.— If 1 1 BxKt, u TXQ; !2BxQch., 12 KxB ; 13 P— QR3, 13 PxKt; 14 PxB, 14 PX 

KtP ; 15 QR Ktsq., 15 QR — Kt sq.+ (Salvioli). In the Vienna Tournament, 1882, between 
Paulson and Xukcrtort, occurred II Q--B2, u P— 05 ; 12 O— O— O, 12 PxKt ; 13 P- I<5, 13 
P— KR3 (ifi3....QxP; i4R-Q8ch., i4K-K2; 15 BxKt ch. + ); 14 PxKt, i4KtPxP+. 

Col. 25.— Continued 13 KtxQ ; 14 KB— QB6, 14 KtxKt ; 15 BxR, 15 Kt— KS dis. ch. ; 16 

P_QB3+ (Salvioli). 

Col. 26.— If 9. . . .P— O.4 ; 10 B— Kt5 ch., 10 K— B sq.; u B— B6, u QR— Kt sq. ; 12 O-O-f . 

Col. 26.— Or II....PXP ; 12 KtXP, 12 KtXKt ; 13 PxKt, 13 BxB ch. (if 13 QXP ; 14?— 

QB3, etc.) ; 14 RxB— . 

Col 26. — This variation is extracted from an analysis of this form of opening by Professor Berger, 
which appeared in the International Chess Magazine of Dec., 1887. Professor Berger dismisses 
here the game in favor of Black on account of the latter's prospective attack on the open QKt file. 
We do not, however, agree with this conclusion, and as already stated in the above quoted journal, 
we think that the weakness of Black's doubled Pawn and far advanced QPfor the ending, will not be 
outweighed by any formation of attack against White's King, e. g. ; 13. . . .B — K3 ; 14 Kt — 64, 14 
QR— Kt sq.; 15 Q— Kt3, 15 R— Kt5 ; i6P— Kt3,' threatening Q—K5, followed by Kt—R5, or 
Kt — K5 at once with the superior game. 

53. Col. 2;.-If 13 B-Kts, 13 B— B4 ; 14 B-K3, 14 BxB ; 15 QxB, 15 P— QB4+. 

p 54. Col. 27. — The above line of play occurred in a consultation game between Messrs. Bauer, Barnes and 
Crispi, against Messrs. Richter, Dr. Rosen thai and Seeger. 

55. Col. 28.— If 7 P— Q4 ; a position arises similar to that in Col. 21, and White may exchange 

Pawns followed by B — Kt5 ch., with a good game, even if Black afterward forms a double P by 
BxKt. For White's Queen will subsequently enter at Q4, followed soon by P — QB4- 

56. Col. 28.— Better than 10 BxKt; II PxB, 11 P— KR3 (necessary, as White threatens BxKt, 

followed by Q— R$. If 11 . . . .P--QB3 ; 12 P— QB4, 12 P—Q$ ; 13 P— 65 + . Again, if n. . . .B 
— K3 ; 12 P— KB4+), 12 B— K3 with the superior game. 

67. Col. 28. — The above moves occurred in the second match game bet ween Messrs. Steinitz and Zuker- 
tort in 1886, with the exception of a transposition of moves. For Black played 7. . . .P — Q4, and 
after the exchange of Pawns, both sides castled. 

58. Col. 29. — Tliis attack was introduced by Burn and for some time was i.iuch in favor. 

59. Col. 29. — The right defence, which we believe was first adopted by the Rev. W. Wayte. If 5 Q 

— 63 ; 6 Kt— 63, 6 KKt— K2 ; 7 Kt— K3, with a good game. 

60. Col. 29. —If 6 PXP?? 6 BxKt ; 7 PxKt, 7 BxP ch.; 8 KxB, 8 QxQ; 9 PxP, 9 Q— Q4+. 

61. Col. 29.— Or 7 QXP, 7 QxQ ; 8 PxQ, 8 Kt— Kts + . 

62. Col. 29. —Threatening RxKt with an irresistible attack. 

Col. 30.— Obviously if 14 QxKt, 14 R — K sq. ; and if 15 B— K4, then 

7o 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 
9KKt-B3 

B-B4 

1P-K4 flQ 

31 32 

-O— 0 

Kt-B3 

33 

P_QKt4? 

°PXP ^B— 64 

34 35 36 

cKt-Kt5 

3p_Q3 

7 

^Kt-R3 
pKtXBP 

RQ-R5 

7KtxP 7Q— Kt3 

BXP 

-BxKt ch. 

OQ— K2 

/Kt— B3 'BxKt 
fiKKt-Kt5 fiBxP ch. 

'PXP 

nQ-Kt3 

'BXP 

«KtXB 

'KXB 

RQ-R5ch. 

7p-Q3 

UKt— K4 UK— B sq. 
B-Kt3 QPXB! 64 

"Q— K2 
nKtxP 

°PXKt 
nQ-Kt3 

°P— KKt3 
QQXB 70 

BE— Q2 

nP-KB4 

op— KR3 oKt— B3 

OKt— B3 
l()QB-KKt5 

JQ— B3 67 
j|jQB-KKt5 , 

OP-Q4 
. nPXP 71 

OQ— O— O 
J()BXP 

73 

lOgB— KKt5 + IDg— Esq. 
B-K6 

BXKt 

. . P— KS 

lUR—K sq. ch. 
1 . K— Q sq. 72 

luKtxB 

HQxKt 

llQ_Ksq. 

Up— KR3+66 

llp_04 68 
1?BXP 

, nP-QB4 

^QR— K sq 
D 

. + 
74 

l^B— Kt3+ 65 

IflQKt— K2 
1QBxKt 

^Q-RS+D 

'KtXB 69 

Column 55. Move 12 Q— R5- 

BLACK. 

I* 

m 

Column 36. Move n . . . .QR — K sq. 

BLACK. 

% 

A A 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 71 

64. Col. 32.— If 9 BxKt, 9 RxB ; 10 PxB, 10 P--KKt4 ; 11 Q— Q sq., II Q—Q2 ; 12 P— Kt4, 12 B 
— Kt3 ; 13 B— Kt2, 13 P— Q6 ; 14 QxP, H Kt— K4 ; 15 Q— K2, 15 Q— R6 ; 16 Kt— Q2, 16 P— 
Kt5 and wins. For if White play P— KB4, Black answers P— Kt6. The above variation is 
from the German Handbuch. 

i 65. Col. 32. — From a game between Rosenthal and Bird, London Tournament, 1883. 

66. Col. 33.— White's attack is broken. If, for instance, 12 B— R4, 12 P— KKt4 ; 13 KtXP, 13 
14 BxP, H Kt— K4; 15 P— KB4, 15 KtxP and wins. 

67. Col. 34.— 9 Q — K2 leads to greater difficulties,^.^-.; 10 P — IO;, 10 Px? ; n B— R3, u Q 

— B3 ; 12 QR— Ksq., 12 KKt— K2 ; 13 KtXP, 13 KtxKt; 14 Q— Kt5 ch., 14 KKt— B3 ; 15 
P— B4+. 

68. Col. 34.— Evidently best. If, for instance, 11 PxP ; 12 QR— K sq., 12 Q— 64 ; 13 KtXP, 13 

KtXKt; 14 P— KB4 with a powerful attack. 

69. Col. 34.— Continued 14 BxKtP, 14 BxB ; 15 QxB, 15 O— O ; 16 QxBP, 16 Kt— 63, even 

game. 

70. Gol. 35.— It makes no difference whether White takes the B at once or checks first at Q5, driving 
the K— Kt2, Black can always afterward proceed with P — Q4. 

71. Col. 35.— Or 10 QXP ch., 10 QxQ ; " PXQ, n Kt— Kt5 ; 12 Kt— R3, 12 R— K sq. ch., followed 
by KtxQP+- 

72. Col. 35.— 1 1 K— B sq. might lead to the following brilliancies : 1 1 R— K4; 12 P— QB4, 12 Q— R5; 

13 Kt— Q2 (to prevent Q— KS), 13. . .B— R6 ; 14 Q— R3, 14 QR— K sq.; 15 PxB, 15, R— K6 ; 
16 PXR, 16 RXP with a winning attack. 

73. Col 36.— If 10 KtXP, 10 KtXKt ; n QXKt, 11 QX? ; 12 QX??, 12 P— Q6 dis. ch., and wins. 

74. Col. 36.— Black threatens to win the KP by P— KR3, and if 12 R— K sq., 12 P— Q6 dis. ch. ; 13 K 
moves, i3Kt— Q5 + . 

• 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

P-K4 

KKt-B3 

r,P-Q4 4B-R4 

IP— K4 

37 38 

4* 

39 

40 

1 

41 

42 

B— B4 *Q— 63 ? 
-Kt— Kts _0— O 

-KtxP 79 

B— KtS ch- 

nQ— R5 PP~B3 

RKt—B3 

RO— 0 

0Q— 63 DP— Q6 
-P— KB4 nQXP 

77 D^txP? 

7P-K5 82 

PXP? 

P-Q3 

'P-Q3 'Q-Kt3 

flP-BS nKt-°4 

7p-Q4 
pQB-KKt5 8O 

'PXP 

'P-KB3 

'B— R4 

pP-QKt4 

OB— Q2 75 °Kt— K4 
QKKt— 63 n^~K2 

OB— K2 81 

B-QKt5 + 

9£ 

BKt-R3 
qP-K5 

Q-S J 

«Q— K2 "KtxB 
nK-Qsq. 1f)QXKt+ 

0 
78 

KKt— K2 
, nKt— K2 

"PXP 

i nKtxP 

i n 

,UQ— o— o 1U 

.P— B6 D 

] 

1 
i 

LUp_Q4 D 33 J 
I1BXP 1 

..KtxKt 

1U 

IQXBP 76 

1 90xKt - \ 

KtPxKt 

Column 37. Move n. P — B6. 

BLACK. 

F 

Column 40. Move 10. . . .P — 04. 

BLACK. 

* 

. 

WHITE. 

THE SCOTCH (JAM ill i. 

75. Col. 37.— Or 8. . . .Kt— K4? ; 9 KtxRP, 9 RXKt ; 10 QB— KKts, IO Kt— B6 ch.; n PxKt, ir 
Q— K4; !2BxPch. + . 

76. Col. 37.— If H....QXKP; 12 PxP, 12 QB— KKt5 ; 13 Q— Q5 and wins. But it is note- 
worthy that White would lose by 13 PxR queening, 13 BxQ ; 14 Q— B6, 14 KKt— Kt5- 

77. Col. 38.— Best. If 6. ... B— Kt5 ; 7 Q— Kt3, 7 BxKt ; 8 QxKtP, 8 K— O.2 ; 9 QxR, 9 Q— Kt3 •» 

10 P-KKt3, 10 Q— Kt5 ; 11 R— K sq. 

78. Col. 38. — For 10 K — Q sq. is Black's Jbest answer; since, if 10 P — QB3, White answers 

KtxP. 

79. Col. 39.— 5 P— QB3, 5 PXP ; 6 KtxP, 6 B-K3 ; 7 BxB, 7 PxB ; 8 Q— Kt3, 8 Q— B sq.; 9 KKt 
— Kt5 is, in our opinion, well defensible for Black, who ought to maintain the P Plus. 

'80. Col. 39.— Not 8 KB— QKt5 at once on account of 8 PxKt ; 9 KtxKt, 9 QxQ ch.; 10 KxQ» 

10 P — QR/3 ; 1 1 B— R.4, 1 1 B — Q2, recovering the piece. 

81. Col. 39.— Or 8. . . .P— 63 ; 9 QBxBP, 9 PxB ; 10 Q— RS ch., 10 K— K2 ; 11 BxP, threatening 
mate by Q— 67+. This column is quoted from a game between Bilguer and von der Lasa. 

82. Col. 40.— Or 7 PxP, 7 P— Q.3 + . 

83. Col. 42. — To simplify matters. If Black try to keep both Pawns he may get into difficulties, e. g.r 

10. . . .P— Q3 ; ii B— 93, u QB— 64 ; 12 Kt-R4, 12 Q— R4! ; 13 KtXB, 13 KtxKt ; 14 BxKt. 
14 QxB ; 15 PXP, 15 BxP ; 16 BxP, etc. 

84. Col. 42. — This variation occurred in a game by correspondence between Edinburgh and London 
in 1827. 

74 

P-K4 

P— K4 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

0KKt-B3 
-B3 

43 

B-QB4 

44 

— Kt5 ch. 

ft°-° 

Op— 87 

nQBxP 

' Kt— Bj ' P— Q3 

-Kt-Kt5!85 ,P- 

^ 

P-Q4 86 

45 

46 

47 

48 

B-QB4 93 

p-Q3 
0-0 

6s= 

Kt— B3 

KtxP 

B— Kt5 ch. UB— Kt 
»O-O 

KKt— K2 / Kt— R3 ' Kt— B3 

P-QKt4 

°O— O 
0-0 

OK_ 

°Kt— K4 

QB-Kt3 
up_kr 

88 OK_ RSq. 91 °p_KKt4D94 °O— O 

Kt-Kts 

Kt— K4 
B-Kt3 

,4nPxKt 

jn?=^3 :jnKt-Kt5 

iUQ_K2 89iUKtxP 
,,Kt— B3 ..KtxRP 

,P-Kt3 95 . nO-( 

— KR3 

A1Kt— B3 
87 .?B-KKt5+ 9O 

92 

R— K sq. ,, 4 P— KB4 
~96 

12 

— Kt2+ 9611B— 64 ch. 
K— R sq. 

BxKt 
PXB 

97 

'O— O 98 

•R— K sq. 

,R-Q sq. 
•B-Q2 

13' 

Column 46. Move 9. . . .P— KKt4. 

BLACK. 

Column 48. Move 10. Q— R4. 

BLACK. 

_, - wm m 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 75 

85 Col. 43.— If 8 P— KS, 8 Kt— Kt5 ; 9 P— KR3, 9 Kt— RS ; 10 P— K6, 10 O— O ! 

86. Col. 43.— After 9 . . .KtxP ; 10 BxKt, 10 P— Q4 ; u B— K2 is White's best move, for if u B— 

Q3, ii Kt— Kt5 ; 12 Kt— 63, 12 KtxB ; 13 KtXKt, 13 Q— 63 ; 14 P— 64, 14?— 64 and Black's 
passed Pawns become very dangerous. 

87. Col. 43.— Stronger than 12 Kt— K4, 12 R— K sq. ; ?3 PxP, 13 R— K3 (not 13. . . .RxKt ; 14 QX 

P, 14 R— R5 ; 15 Q — R8 ch. and mates next move) ; 14 R — Q sq., 14 Q — K2. After the move in 
the text, Black has no better answer than 12 QxKt, whereupon White captures the R, queening 
the P with a ch. and remains with the exchange and two Pawns ahead. 

88. Col. 44.— If 9. . . .Kt— Q5 ; 10 Q— Q3, 10 Q— 63 ; 11 PxB, n KtxKt ch.; 12 QxKt, 12 QxR ; 

13 QxP ch., 13 K— Q sq. ; 14 B— Kt$ ch. and wins. 

89. Col. 44.— Or 10 Q— 63 ; 11 B— Kt2, 11 Kt— K4 (if n Q— Kt3 ; 12 Kt— R4+) ; 12 K— R 

sq., for White afterward proceeds with KtxKt, followed by P — KB4. 

90. Col. 44.— Continued 12 B— K3 ; 13 Kt— Q,5, 13 BxKt ; 14 PxB, 14 Kt— K4 ; 15 B— Kt$ 

ch., 15 K— B sq.; 16 QR— K sq., with the superior game. 

91. Col. 45.— K9....P— KR3; 10 Q— Kt3, 10 B— Kt3 ; u QKt— Q2, n Kt— R4 ; 12 Q— R4+. 

This Column with Notes are quoted from Cook's Synopsis, 

92. Col. 45.— Continued : 14 Q— R6, 14 K— Kt sq.; 15 Kt— Q2, 15 BxP ; 16 Kt— Kt5, 16 P— KB3 + . 

93. Col. 46. — This position also occurs in the Danish Gambit by a transposition of moves. 

94. Col. 46. — It is very rarely that such an early advance of the KKtP can be recommended, and it 
looks especially dangerous here, as the range of White's QB is increased. But we think this is 
quite sound now. 

95. Col. 46.— If 10 P— 64, 10 PXP ; n RXP, n B-Kt2; 12 Kt -65 ?, 12 KtxKt; 13 PxKt, 13 
Q-Kt4+. 

96. Col. 46.— White cannot well advance the KBP, e. g.: 12 P — 64, i2PxP;i3PXP, 13 Q— RS ; 14 
Q— Q2, 14 KR— Kt sq.+ . 

97. Col. 47.— Or 9 KtXP ; 10 KtxKt, 10 PxKt ; 11 (u>— Kt3, n O— O ; 12 B— R3 + . 

98. Col. 48.— If 10 B— Q2 ; 11 R— Qsq., n Q— B sq.; 12 B— R3, 12 Kt— Q5?; 13 BxP ch., 13 

; i4KtXPch. + . 

76 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

P-K4_ 
IP— K4 

KKt-E3 
OQKt— 63 

49 

50 

51 

52 

KtxP 

53 54 

.KtxKt 

QKt-B3 

B-Q2_ 
"Kt— 63 

P-KB4 
Kt— 63 

B-Q3 

51- — ^-"^ P C__ 

Kt— 63! lt>3 OB— B4? 1O3 °P— QB3 ^Kt— K2 /// 

.B— 64 -QxP 

Oi 

O— O 

,KKt— 63 // 0 RKtxKBPlO6 RB— E4 
"KxKt 0Kt— B3 

7Q-Q5 

/Q-B3 

7 7QKt-B3_ ^-Ks 

/P_Q4? /KtXBch. 'Q— Kts 'KXB 

KB-QB4 QB-Kt5 ch. RQxKt RKt— B3 pO-O 

lp_Q3 Op— 63 10O OB— Kts "Kt— K2 OP— Q4 

,Kt-Q3 QKtxQBP QB-Q2 QP-KKt3 QR-K sg. 

UpN/T^t UO_O OQ_ KtC 1O5 "K— B2 

BxKt 

PXKt 

'O— O 
1 n^A^ 99 , pBxP ch. . Q— Q— Q . Kt— K4+ D 4 nB— K$ 

1U ~!UB Q2 lUp Q3 ""ID 

A jBxR j jKt — 63 

•P— B3+ 102 

14 

PXP+ D 101 

0— 

B— B4— 

Column 50. Move 14. 

BLACK. 

Column 52. Move 10. Kt — 1<4. 

BLACK. 

1*1 

WHITE. 

THE SCUTCH GAMBIT. 77 

99. Col. 49. — From a game between Goring and W. Paulsen (Salvioli). White has a strong attack. 

100. Col. 50.— If 8 K-Bsq.; 9 KtXP, 9 KtXKt ; 10 PxKt, 10 BxB ch.; n QxB+. 

101. Col. 50.— Continued: 14 Kt— 65 ; 15 P— 0.64, 15 KtXP ch.; 16 K— 62, 16 Kt— 65 ; 17 Q - 

Q4, 17 Kt— R6 ch. ; 18 K— B sq.+ 

102. Col. 51. — We slightly prefer Black's game on account of the two Bishops. 

103. Col. 52. — The chief fault of this move is that it blocks the square where the Kt is wanted to go to 
attack the weak KP, or in order to effect the exchange of the important hostile KB. 

104. Col. 52.— Or 6 P— Q3 ; 7 P— 65, 7 Kt— B sq.; 8 Kt— 63, with the superior position. 

105. Col. 52. —If 9 O— O ; 10 Kt— R4, 10 Q— RS ; 11 P— 65, 11 Kt— Kt4 ; 12 Q— Kt4, and wins. 

106. Col. 53. — A bold, and in fact, unsound sacrifice introduced by Cochrane. 

107. Col. 54. — Recommended by Staunton in preference to 8 Kt — 63 as was played by correspondence 
between Edinburgh and London. 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

JP-K4 
IP— K4 

9KKt-B3 
"QKt— B3 

KtxP 

Game 1. 

Salvioli. 

TSCHIGORIN 
SCHIFFERS. 

OKKt-K2 

B-B4_ 

/P 

3&4 

>— O 

OQXP 2 

in*=*!3: 

!UQ___Kt3 3 

, ,KtxKt 

ch. 

-K2 

P_Q4 

— 3 

R-KBsg.!4 

I/O — O 

1RP-KKt4 
lOOR— Ksq. 
Kt-B5_ 
ltJp_ys 
,„?— Kt< 

£i£iK— Kt2 8 

R-Ksg. 9 

««JPXP 1O 
9.QxKtch.Dll 

^RXQ 
9-RXRch. 

"0 Resigns. 12 

Game 2. 

Leipzig Chess Con- 
gress, 1877. 

PAULSEN 
ANDERSSEN. 

B-Kt5_ 
1 0-0 

R2z^ w 

OB— Kt3 14 

QP-KB4 
up Q^ 

1n^I±3 

lUp_QR3 15 

^Q-Kt3 
12p_KB4 16 

KtxB 

Q-Kt3 ch. 

— B2 17 

g 
K 

— R2ch. 
-Rsg. 18 

t— Kt6 19 

R— B3 
R-E2D 20 

?— KKt4 

— KB 

sq. 

9RK-Ktsq. 
^R-B4 
nirQ-Q4ch. 21 

" ' and wins. 

Game 3. 

Dufresne Lehrbuch* 
Des Schachspiels. 

BLACKBURNE 

MASON. 

22 

n 
"Kt— 63 

'P-Q3 
B— K2 

23 

KtxB 

'" 

11 

P— 64 25 

12B_Q2 
jgP^KKH 

" 

B— 63 
QR-Ktsq.26 
Kt— Q2 

16 

19 

P— 63 
B— 64 ch. 

K— R sq. 
rP-Kt6 
Kt— K4 
.B -Kt3 27 
'P— R3 28 
R— Kt3 
Q— K2 
Q-K3 

sq. 29 

fl iQ_B sq. 
9?Kt-K2 

""R— K sq. 
nqKt-B4 

""R— K2 
?.Kt-K6 

"^ 

30 

R-Ktsg.D 
Black resigns. 31 

Game 4. 

Leipzig Chess Con- 
gress, 1877. 

ZUKERTORT 
SCHALLOPP. 

rKt— Kt3 32 

B— Kt3 
Kt— B3 33 

Kt— K2 
QB— 

QB— KB4 

Kt— Kt3 
B-Kt3 

34 

iP— 

KB-QE4 
P— KR4 

35 

6 

-B3 

— O— O 

-r _ 

1 Oo_Kt4 ch. 
K-Ktsg. 

lDR_Bsq. 

B-Kts 36 
1 / KKt— K2 
l 0Q-Q8 ch. 

10K-B2 

'B-K3 D 
.BxBch. 

Q-Q7ch 

P-K6ch. 

37 

24 
25 
26 
27 

BXR 
RXB 

QXP 
RxR 

R-Qsq. 

QXP 
Q-Q7 
Q — Kt sq. 

RXKt_and, 

U" after a few 
moves, Black 
resigned. 

T1IK SCOTCH (,AMl;lT. 7g> 

Tschigorin v. Schiffers. 

1. Game i.— 7. . . .Kt— K4; 8B— K2+!, 8 P— Q4; gP— KB4(or gKt— Q2, 9 Q— KKt3),9. . . .QKt— B$ 

is, in our opinion, the best defence here, for if 10 P — K5, 10 Q—R$ ch. (not 10 KtXB ; n Px 

Q, u KtxQ ; 12 PxP+) ; ii P— Kt3, n KtXB ; 12 Q— R4ch., 12 B— Q2+. 

2. Game i.— The capture of this P was at least hazardous at this juncture. 

3. Camel.— If 10 O— O ; u Kt— Q2, 11 Q— Kt3 ; 12 Kt— Kt5, recovering the P with a strong. 

attack. 

4. Game i. — An excellent move which obviously prevents Black's castling at once, as he threatens to> 

win a piece by P — 65. 

5. Game i.— White might have also recovered the P with the better game by Kt— 85, but as wilt 
be seen this is much stronger. He threatens again P— 65, etc. 

6. Game i.— Weak. Q — R5 was his best play. 

7. Game i. — Foreseeing the sacrifice of the exchange which White would recover with a P phis after 

20. . . .Q— Kt2 ; 21 RXB, 21 PXR ; 22 KtxP, 22 Q— B2 ; 23 KtxR, 23 KxKt ; 24 PxP, and 
should Black attempt 24 QxRP, the reply B--B4 followed by Q — K6 would win for White. But* 
no doubt, he would have chosen this line of play as the lesser evil had he perceived the fine combin- 
ation which White winds up with. 

8. Game i.— Of course if R — B2, White wins by 6—64. 

9. Game i. — A masterly coup which leaves no escape for the opponent. 

10. Game i. — Of course overlooking the opponent's deep design. But he could not win the game, for 

if the Kt removed White would win by Q — Q7 ch. 

11. Game i. — A highly ingenious and brilliant termination. 

12. Game i . — Mate is forced in three more moves. If 25 R — B2 ; 26 Kt— K6 ch., 26 K— Kt sq. ; 27 

R— K8 ch., and mates next move. And if 25 K— Kt sq. ; 26 6—64 ch., 26 R— 62 ; 27 R— K8 

ch., and Kt— K6mate. 

Paulsen v. Anderssen. 

L3. Game 2.— After 8 KKtxKt, 8 KtPxKt ; 9 BxB, 9 PxB ; 10 O— O, 10 P— Cj3 ; u B— K3, we 

somewhat prefer White. 

L4. Game 2. — Probably, in order to avoid the slight disadvantage of the last- mentioned variation. 

L5. Game 2. — Weak on general principles, and it also drives the B to a more favorable post. Much better 
was 10 KtxKt ; n PxKt, 11 P— Q4 ; 12 P— KS, 12 Q— Kt3. 

Game 2.— rOwing to Black's weak advance of the QRP in the loth move, this usually good develop- 
ing resource is not available and costs a Pawn. 

Game 2.— Black gives up another P in order to lay a trap which, however, turns out unsound. 

Game 2. — 20 R — B2 would not have been good, as Black might have replied P — KKt4, and it 21 P 
XP, 21 Kt — K2, and wins. 

Game 2.— On this and the next move Black has evidently relied in forming his counter-attack, but 
as will be seen White has an ingenious reply in store. 

Game 2. — The only salvation, but also sufficient to insure victory. 

Game 2.— For after the exchange of Queens White can easily release himself by R (62)— KB sq.> 
making room tor K — B2. 

Blackburne v. Mason. 

Game 3. — This exchange is not to be recommended. 

Game 3.— White might have maintained his two Bishops by B — K3, and if then 8 KKt — Kjt^i . 

9 B— QB sq., and the Kt would be driven back again ultimately by P— KR3- (Dufresne. ) 

Game 3.— A decisive error, as soon appears. (Dufresne.) 

(Continued on page 8z.) 

t \. ' 

So 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

GAME No. I. 

Move 24. QxKt ch. 

BLACK — SCHIFFERS. 

GAME No. 2. 

Move 22. R — B2. 

BLACK — ANDERSSEN. 

m 

WHITE — TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE — PAULSEN. 

GAMEiNo. 3. 

Move 26. R— KKt sq. 

BLACK — MASON. 

i 4 

GAME No. 4. 

Move 19. .. .B — K/3. 

BLACK — SCHALLOPP. 

in 
" 

WHITE— BLACKBURNE. 

WHITE— ZUKERTORT. 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. Si 

(Contimud fro m page 79-) 

Game 3. — To prevent B— Kt5, which would have been Black's best answer to the move in the text, 

White ought to have played u P— KKt4, for if 1 1 BxP; 12 BxB, 12 KtXB ; 13 KR— Kt sq., 

13 Kt— 63 ; 14 Kt— Q5, 14 K— R sq. ; 15 RxP, 15 KxR ; 16 R— Kt sq. ch., and wins. 

Game 3. — Better than playing the KR, which is retained in order to support an eventual advance of 
the KRP. 

Game 3. — Blackburne's play is a good model for the attack against the side on which the opponent 
has castled. 

Game 3.— If 18 Kt— B6; 19 Q— K3, 19 KtxR ; 20 RxKt, followed by R— Kt3 and R— R3, with 

an irresistible attack. 

Game 3.— Much better, was clearly the same R — K sq. 

Game 3. — Black here misses the opportunity of recovering the game, for we believe he could win 

by 23 Kt— 65 ; 24 Q— 62 (if 24 BxKt, 24 RxP ; 25 Q moves, 25 RxKt, followed by BxR or 

. RXB) ; 24 RXP; 25 R— Kt sq. (if 25 Kt— K6, 25 RxKt) ; 25 B — O2, with a P ahead 

and a good game. 

Game 3.— For White must win the Q by RxP ch., followed by P — Kt; ch. 

Zukertort v. Schallopp. 

Game 4. — This move was first introduced by Blackburne. 

Game 4.— 6 Q— Kt4, 6 Kt— 63; 7 QxP, 7 KR— Kt sq. ; 8 Q— R6, 8 BxP ch. would give Black the 
better game. 

Game 4. — As he is bound afterward to advance the QP, a hole is created in the centre. There was 
no danger in O — O. 

Game 4. — It was high time to get into comparative safety with his K by O — O. 

Game 4.— It is interesting that though White is menaced with the loss of a piece all along, his 
counter attack gives the opponent no time for taking it. 

Game 4. — A simple way of saving the piece as well as the Q which was threatened by either R mov- 
ing to Q sq. 

Game 4. — The exchange is given up in the hope of making some impression with his Pawns on the 
King's side, and this seems to have been his best plan, though he was only one P behind he had no 
game left otherwise. Of course, if QxKtP at once, White would answer BxB, followed by R— 
Ktsq. 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

,P-K4 
IP— K4 

9KKt-B3 
"QKt— B3 

PXP 

Game 5. 

Dufresne I^ehrbuch, 
Des Schachspiels. 

MINCHIN 
WAYTE. 

KtXP 
4B-B4 
cKt-B5 
0P_Q4 
«KtxP ch. 

UK— ~rS sq. 

7K*-RR5 

Kt— Kt3 
OKt-B3 
QPXP 39 

OQB— KKt5 

P-KB3 40 

1UR— Ksq. Ch. 
, .B— K2 

D 41 

.Q-Q2 4:2 

IP— KR3 43 

,K-Qsq. 

QKtxB 

KtxKt 

t— K5 

Kt— Bych. 
and wins. 

Game 6. 

Dufresne Lehrbuch, 
Des Schachspiels. 

MEPHISTO * 
AMATEUR. 

KKt— 63 

pB-K2 
Dp_Q4 

7o-o 

'B— K3 
«Kt— B^? 

44 

»Q-B4 
>KB— QKt5 
'KKt— K2 

11 

Q— Kt3 
P-KB4 

P— KB4 45 

\ Q /sv 

ICO— O— O 
, ,BxKt 

46 

Kt-Kt5 

A^B— B4ch. 47 

IP8-^ 

A OB— K3 48 

1'BxBch. 
jn^XB 

g— B2 

P-B4 

— Ksq. 

K— Ktsq. 
R— Ktsq. 

n_Q4 

49 
50 

• T^i T>- 

JRXPch.DSl 
52 

Q— Kt6 ch. 

and White 
mates next move. 

27 

Game 7. 

Salvioli The or i a &* 
Practica, 

Von BILGUER 

Von HEYDE- 

BRAND. 

B— Kt5 ch. 
P-B3 

PXP 

53 

n 
'P— B3 

-Kt 

Kt-R3 

KtxP 

Q— K2 
KtxKt 

54 

10 

1U 

IOQXB 

10p_Q4 

. .R-K sg. ch. 

14K-Qsq. 

4rKt-B3 
10B— R6 55 
P-KKt3 

17QR— Qsg.ch. 
i/B— 2 

i n- 
lOR- 

Bsq. 

fiU 

R— Ksq. 
RXEch. 56 

— K2 

Kt— Ktsq. 
Q-Kt5 
Q_K sq. 

White wins. 

Game 8. 

Gossip's Manual. 

KOLISCH 
HARRWITZ. 

O— O 

nr-^ 

°PXP 

'Kt— R4 57 
pBxP ch. 
OK— B sq. 
gQXBP 

lfl|x| 

luKt— B3 58 

59 

.KxKt 60 

icl=l£_ 

8-Q2 

61 

FK-Ktsq. 
RXKt 

p_B3 

62 

63 

Q — Q6 ch. 

•B— K3 

Kt-B3 

.R— Ksg. 64 
)R— K sq. 65 

66 

Game 8— Cont'd. 
67 

-Kt3 

R-Ksq. 

00Q-Kt4 68 
»"0— Kt8 

— KR4 

QxRP 

OUQ—Q7 69 
Q-Ktsg.ch.i 

0 / K— R3 7tt 
R-B6ch.Dj 

OOpxR 

,QB-B4ch. and 

U "White wins. 

* A so-called automaton chess player, which was exhibited in London for many years, 
Mr. Gunsberg. 

and was conducted b] 

THE SCOTCH r.AMUIT. 83 

Minchin v. Wayte. 

39. Game 5. — Compare Col. 30, where we give B— K2 at this juncture, but with no better result, for 
White, whose game is already compromised. 

40. Game 5.— If 10 B— K2, 10 R— K sq.; n O— O (or 11 PxKt, u BxB; 12 Q— Q2, 12 Kt— Kt5 + ); 

ii. .. .BXB ; 12 KtXB, 12 KKt— KKt5, and wins. 

41 . Game 5 . —Excellent play . 

42. Game 5-— If 13 PxB, 13 KtXKBP ch.; 14 K— B sq., 14 Q— R6 mate. 

43. Game 5.— Of course, quite good enough, but 13 Kt— KKt5 was likely to lead to the following 

brilliant termination : 14 Q— KtS, 14 BX? ; 15 QXQ, 15 Kt-B6 ch.; l6K— Qsq.; 16 Kt— 67 
mate. 

Mephisto v. Amateur. 

Game 6. — Compare Col. 13. 

Game 5. — An error which costs a P. 10 B — Q2, followed by K — Q sq., and afterward Kt — B 

sq., was, as Herr Dufresne points out, the right defence. 

Game 6.— 14 BxB ; 15 KtXB, 15 QxKt was far superior, and would have given Black the 

best of the game. 

Game 6. — B — Oj was preferable (Dufresne). 

Game 6. — An error which costs another valuable P. Again B— Oj was better (Dufresne). 

Game 6. — Not perceiving the opponent's brilliant design. 

Game 6. — The initiation of a brilliant plan. 

Game 6. — White now finishes off with a series of master coups. 

Game 6. —Or 25.... K— B sq.; 26 R— B; ch., 26 K— Kt sq.; 27 R— Kt3 ch., 27 K— Rsq.; 28 
RXP ch., 28 KtxR ; 29 Kt— 67 mate (Dufresne). 

Von Bilguer v. Von Heydebrand. 

Game 7. — Compare Col. 40. The right move here is Q — 63. 
Game 7. — Very fine play which gives White an overwhelming attack. 

Game 7.— If 15 ... .PxB ; 16 QR— Q sq. ch., 16 B— Q2 ; 17 Q— Kt7, 17 QR— B sq. ; 18 QxP at 
B6, 18 KR— B sq. ; 19 RxB ch., 19 QxR ; 20 QxKt and wins (Salvioli). 
Game 7. — A most beautiful combination. 

Kolisch v. Harrwitz. 

Game 8. — This resource is unfavorable for the defence. Q — Q2 is quite safe here, followed by Kt — 
R4 in reply to QxBP, with a P ahead and a very good game. 

Game 8. Not good.— Kt— K2 was by far better. 

Game 8.— Forced. For if B— Kt3 White wins a clear piece by Q—Qs ch- 

Game 8. — Q— Q5 ch. would now have been bad play, for Black would interpose B — K3, and if 
White answers Kt — Kt5 ch., Black replies QxKt, remaining with two Pawns and a R for two 
minor pieces. 

Game 8.— Probably a miscalculation. 

Game 8 — Of course he dare not capture the B on account of the rejoinder P— K6 dis. ch. 

*- 

(Continued on page 85.) ^ 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

GAME No. 6. 

Move 12 BxBP. 

BLACK — WAYTE. 

GAME NO. 6. 

Move 25. RXP ch. 

BLACK— AMATEUR. 

WHITE— MIXCHIX. 

WHITE— MEPHISTO. 

GAME No. 7. 

Move 24. R(Ksq.) — Q sq. 

BLACK — VOX HEYDEBRAXD. 

i 

GAME No. 8. 

Move 38. R(B4)B6 ch. 

BLACK — HARRWITZ. 

• B 

"'<* 

WHITE — VOX BILGUER. 

WHITE— KOLISCH. 

mi. SCOTCH <.. \MIUT. 

(Continued from 

63. Game 8. — Weak play which costs two Pawns. B— B4 was the correct move, for he could recover 

the P by Q— Q6 ch., in answer to PyP. 

64. Game 8. — An error which exposes him to loss. R — Q sq. was the proper move, whereupon if 26 

. . . .B— Q4 ; 27 K— B2, 27 Q— Kt5 ; 28 RxB, 28 PxR ; 29 QxQP, and should win. 

65. Gam-j 8.— Black could have won now by 25 ____ B— Q4 ; 26 Kt— KS, 26 R— K sq., threatening RX 
Kt, followed by Q— Kt5 ch. The reply 27 B— K7 would be of no use on account of 27 ____ Q — B7 
winning. 

66. GameS.— H26....P— KKt4; 27 BxP, 27 PxB ; 28 RxB, 28 RxR ; 29 QxR, 29 QxQ ; 30 
KtXP ch., etc. (Gossip). We add that B— 62 was preferable, as Black had already three Pawns 
for the piece, and should have drawn at least after exchanging Rooks. 

67. Game 8 — 28 RxR would have lost on account of 28 ____ QxKt ch.; 29 K — K sq., 29 Q — 1<5 ch.; 
30 K— K2, 30 QXP ch. and wins the B ; for if 31 B— B2, 31 P— B6 ch. wins the Q (Gossip). 

68. Game 8.— Much better was, we believe, 33 R— Kt4, 33 Q— 63 ch. ; 34 K— Kt sq., 34 R— R4 (there 
seems nothing better, for otherwise White forces the exchange of Queens by Q — B5 ch.) : 35 QX 
QKtP, etc. 

69. Game 8.— Black had again recovered ground, and we believe he would have won with facility on 

account of the great superiority of Pawns, by R— K/3, threatening 6—65, which he could not play 
at once as White would reply RXB followed by BxR- 

70. Game 8.— The final and fatal error. He had still a very good game if he retreated K— Kt sq. 

86 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

jP-K4 
lp~K4 

KKt-B3 
^QKt-B3 

Game 9. Game 10. 

Game 11 

Game 12. 

lrienna Tournament Match. 

PAULSEN 

STEINITZ 

ZUKERTORT. ZUKERTORT. OUR— KKt8 
y|KtXP 31R_KB8 

Illustrated London 

Game 9-Cont'd. New,. 

STAUNTON 
.. 105 

Game 11-Conf d. 

QKt 

,KtxKt 
'KtPxKt 

fc 

/P-04 

OQB-K5ch. 

OOp_B3 
Q.B— B4 

"4R-B4 

35" 

• B-B4 
^Kt— B3 

QB-KKt5l06 
0 

Correspondence 
Game. 

VIENNA 
LONDON. 

KtxP 

)— K7 ch. 

^-R3 

>— R4 ch. 

rKt-RKt5 
OB— Kts ch. 

B4 
P-B3 

'P— Q4 

,QB-KKts 71 Q0-0 

HO-O 

84 

°P— B4 
. nB-Kt5 ch. 
1UK— Bsq. 

R(QB4)XKBP Bp-7| 
JR-5Kt4 81 uS 

1O7 

85 

^ Black resigns. 
Game 12-Cont'd. 

30^ 

"QXP ch. 

'K— Qsq. 
QP-O 

°BXB 

113 

B4 

,Kt- 

-o 72 

B— Q3 
Kt— Kt3 

86 

KR3 

UOR— KHch. 11 
K-B1_821 

OOR-QKt3 19 

P-QKt4 

pxP 

Q-Ktsq. 

PXP 

13 

P— KR3 73iUKt— Kt 
PXKt 74 . .B— K2 

-14o=5r 

87 
88 

Iflp r>R4 

^^~13o K-K3l°8 
andwin,83 Q^KtS 

-11 

-12 

Ct— B3 
^Kt— KB3 

KKt— 
P— 

QB— KB4 75 . -BxKt 

Game 10-ContU QKt— Q2 

-B sq. 

n n r — VD6 1VL — »-lJ 

,Q— Bsq. QUO— Ktsq. 95 4 0K~R sct- 

'QR-Ktsq. iOB-K7 
.P_QR4 76 aR— K sq 

89 n , P— 

35 
36 

Q-B3 

n^=?3 

lUR— K sq. 
Kt— Q2 

14Kt-R3 

. rKt(Q2)-K4 

BX 

QR3 
QRP 

R3 
B-B3 

9O 

)=K^ 1?6^- 

Ct— Kt6 96 i ' B— K3 
,«BxP 

QXP 

,QXP 

109 UU0— B 

77 

p— KB4 
R-K6 

38^ 

-QB3 

P— QKt3 
B-Kt2 

97 

K-Ktsq. 

78 

-QKt3 

1QQ-K4Sqil0.qJ.-D. 

lOn KPx OUQ K 

.B-R5 

91 

.R-Ktsq. 

QxQ 

QpBXQ 

^*R— Rsq. ^^RXR 

onBXP 79onB-Kt4 

22 

. 92 

« nK— R2 98 « l KR— K sq. 
OUQ_QKt3 9900Kt~QB4 
Q17K-Ktsq. ^^RXR 
«J'B-Kt2 , 

»R— Kt2 t 

R-QBsq. 

P-B3 
R— K scl- 

22 

•RXB 

1R— RSch.SO 

.KXP 

QKtxKt 

111 

Q-R7 D 

B-Kt2 

BxR 

Q?-B3 100 

OOn-_B4ch. 

Kt~R4 

RXB 

— Ksq. 

. K— R2 1O1 

^JR-QRsq. 115 
.gR-QBsq. 

— QBsq. 

R— K4 93 
P-KR4 

29 

T 

oqPrRi. 

"OR— K5 

94 

1O2 

>P— Kt4 1O3 

'B— K7 and wins. 
104 

Q_Q8 ch. 

,B— K4ch. D 
"112 

Q-K7 

B-Bsq. 

|QR— Q sq. 
KR— K sq. 

•g^ 

Kt— R4 
[Q-Q3 

,P-QKt3 114 
•KtxB 

9RK— R sq. 
/IDoKf— Kt2 

_ QR4 

in^-Ksq. 
™O-B7 116 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 87 

Paulsen v. Zukertort. 
Game 9.— We would suggest here the following new line of continuation: 9 B — Q2, 9 P — 84 (or 

9 PxP ; 10 KtxP, 10 BxB ch. ; u KxB, and we prefer White, who may get one weak P in 

the centre, if continued n KtxKt ; 12, QxKt, 12 QxQ ; 13 PXQ, which, however, can be 

well defended ; whereas Black's Pawns on the Q side are badly situated, and White's King is also 

more available for the ending. Again if 9 BxKt ; 10 BxB, 10 PxP ; II O—O—O followed 

by B— Kt4with an excellent attack); 10 B— Kt5 ch., 10 K— B so.; II Q— B2, II Pxl'; 12 

O— O-O, 12 QR— Kt sq.; 13 B-B6, 13 PxP ; 14 KR— K sq., 14 B-K3 or Q— Oj ; 15 Bxl* 

and we think White has a good attack for the P given up. He threatens now B— K3, followed by 

P— QR3, etc. 

Game 9. — White gives up the piece in order to regain it by an ingenious process. 

Game 9.— Of course if QxP. the reply R— Q8 ch. followed by BxKt ch., wins the exchange. The 

move in the text was the best, for it was necessary to prevent B — R6 ch. after White plays PxKt. 

Game 9.— We should have preferred 14 B — R4, and if 14 P— Kt4 ; 15 PxKt, 15 QxP ; 16 B — 

Kt3, and the B will obtain a fine attack at KS after R— K sq., or else White might proceed with 
P— KR4, etc. 

Game 9. — B — K.3 threatening P — QR3 was, we believe, stronger and might have led to the follow- 
ing continuation : 15 PX? ch.; 16 K— Kt sq., 16 B— K3 ; 17 R-Q3, 17 P— 65 ; 18 R— 63, 18 

K — Kt2 ; 19 Q— Kt3 ch., 19 K— R2 ; 20 RxP, with an excellent attack. 

Game 9. — We see no reason why he should not have first played BX? ch. followed by P — QR4, as 
in actual play. 

Game 9. — PXP was not alone safe, but indispensible. If Black replied B — R4, then White would 
answer K — Q2. 

Game 9. — Black misses here a fine opportunity of finishing off in a brilliant manner by 19. . . .B — R6, 
which threatens BX? ch. followed by Q— R6, and if 20 QxR ch., 20 K— Kt2 ; 21 BxP ch., 21 
K— R2, and should win. 
Game 9.— Probably his best defence. If 23 B— Kt5, 23 KR— OB sq. ; 24 B— Kt3 (or 24 B— Q6, 24 

B— B6, etc., or 24 B— Kt6, 24 KR— QKt sq., etc., Chess Monthly] ; 24 P— B6 ; 25 R— Q4, 25 

B— K2 ; 26 B-K sq., 26 R— 64 ; 27 R— QKt4, 27 RxB ; 28 RXR, 28 RxP, and wins. 

Game 9. — A much stronger move was 25 R— QB sq. ; for if 26 KxP, 26 B— R6 ch., followed by 

RXR wins a piece, and if 26 P— 63, 26 R— R8ch.;27 KxP, 27 BxP ch., and wins. Or if 26 R— Kt4 
ch., 26 K— R2 ; 27 B— Q6, 27 R— R8 ch.; 28 KxP, 28 B— B6 ch., and wins. 

Game 9. — An excellent move which leaves White no time for advancing the P, for in that case 
Black would win by R — Kt7 ch., whereupon White's K must retreat to B sq., in order to avoid 
mate in two moves commencing with R — B8 ch., and then R — QB6 wins the P. 
Game 9.— After 39 K— R2 or R sq., 39 R— QB6 ; 40 P— 67, 40 R— 63, followed by K— K3, Black 
wins with ease. 

Game 9.— Continued 41 K— Q sq., 41 R (KB6)— QB6, 42 6—64, 42 R— B8 ch.; 43 K— K2, 43 
R— 67 ; 44 RxR, 44 RXR ch. ; 45 K— 63, 45 P-R4 ; 46 K— Ktj, 46R —65 ; 47 K— 63, 47 K— 
K3 ; 48 K— K3, 48 P— RS ; 49 K— 0.3, 49 K— Cj4 ; 50 K— K3 (Signer Salvioli considers that White 

might have drawn by B— Q6), 50 R— K$ ch.;5i K— 63, 51 R— K sq. 552 K— Kt4, 52 K— KS; 53 

B-Q6, 53 P-B4 ch. ; 54 KxP, 54 P-B5 J 55 K-Kt5, 55 P-B6 ; 56 B-Kt3, 56 R-QB sq. ; 57 
P— R4, 57 RxP, and wins. 

Steinitz v. Zukertort. 

Game 10.— If 8 KtxP ; 9 O— O, 9 KtxKt ; 10 Q— K sq. ch., etc. 

Game 10. — Best. BxKt, though it doubles a P, gives White attacking opportunities by R — QKt 

sq. and P— QB4. And if 10 B— K2 ; II BxKt, II BxB ; 12 KtXP, 12 BxP (of course if Qx 

Kt, the Q is lost by BxPch.) ; 13 R— Kt sq., 13 6—83 (or 13.... B— K4 ; 14 BxP ch., fol- 
lowed by Q— R5 ch.) ; 14 Q— R5, 14 P— Kt3 ; 15(^—63, and wins the exchange. 
Game 10.— Threatening BX? ch., followed by Kt— Kt5 ch. 
Game 10.— An excellent move which gives the second player the advantage. 

Game 10.— The only defence for Q— RS was threatened, and if 14 P— KR3, 14 KtxP ; 15 KxKt ; 
1 6 Q— R5, followed by P-KB4 and 65. 

Game 10. — This and the next move are not favorable to Black's position. B — O2 with a view of 
advancing the KBP was much stronger. 

Game 10. — White now assumes the offensive. He threatens BxP, followed by Kt— 85 ch. if Black 
retakes. Black cannot answer P — Q5 on account of the reply R — K4. 

Game 10. — White could not take the P on pain of losing a piece by BxKt either before or after the 
exchange of Queens accordingly. 

Game 10.— R— K sq. was much better. But if 24 KtxP, 24 R— Q2 ; 25 BxR, 25 QxKt with a 
good game, for though White is a P ahead he can hardly win on account of the Bishops being of 
opposite colors. 

Game 10. — Black has finely taken advantage of the opponent's omission in the 24th move, and he 
taken indisputable possession of the open Kings' file. 

(Contim ted on page 89.) 

THE SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

GAME No. 9. 

Move 13. P— KS. 

BLACK— ZUKERTORT. 

GAME No. 10. 

Move 42 BxP 

BLACK— ZUKERTORT. 

m 

WHITE — P AULSEN . 

WHITE — S FEINITZ. 

GAME No. I I. 

Move 28. B— K4 ch. 

BLACK — . . 

GAME No. 12. 

Move 43. Q— R7. 

BLACK — LONDON. 

WHITE— STAUNTON. 

WHITE —VIENNA. 

TIIK SCOTCH r.AMFUT. 89 

(Continued from page' 87 .) 

Game 10.. — A weak move which compromises his Kings side. He could have obtained an excel- 
lent attack by P— QKt4 instead, which would have broken Black's Pawns and must have ultimately 
won the centre Pawn. 

Game 10.— The idea of compelling White to advance the KKtP was a good one, as it weakens his * 

Kings' side, but there was no reason against playing Q — K4 at once. 

Game 10.— A feeble move, for he has to return again to the post he leaves. Much better was 32 P 

-KBi, 32 R— K6 ; 33 PxP, 33 ?XP ; 34 QXP, 34 QXQ ; 35 RXQ, 35 RXP ; 36 K— Kt2, 36 

B— Kt2 ; 37 Kt— Q5, 37 R— K6 ; 38 K— B2, with a fair advantage in position. 

Game 10.— A very fine move. White dare not take the P with the Kt, for B would retake, followed 

byR— K8ch. andRxR. 

Game 10.— Very weak. K — Kt2 followed by P — KB3, should Black reply B — Kt2 was the right 

play. 

Game 10.— Threatening R— K7 followed by QxP ch. and B— Kt2. 

Game 10.— Best. For Black threatened RxKt or R— K8 ch. 

Game 10.— An error, of which Black very cleverly takes advantage. 41 K— Kt2, ; 41 R— K6 ; 42 

Kt— K6, would have given White fair defensive chances, for if 42. . . .BxP ch. ; 43 QxB, while 

otherwise White's Kt enters at Q4. 

Game 10. — A beautiful move which wins by force. 

Game 10.— White had no good move. If 43 Kt— Kt2, 43 BxKt ; 44 KxB, 44 PxP ; 45 PXP, 45 

R- QB8 ; 46 P— B4, 46 R— 67; 47 K— B sq., 47 P— Q7; 48 K— K2, 48 P— Q8, queening ch., and 

wins. 

Game 10.— Continued ; 44 Kt— Kt2, 44 P— Q7 ; 45 Kt— K3, 45 QBPxP ; 46 RPXP, 46 BxP, and 

Staunton v. 

105. Game n. — In Gossip's Manual, where we find this game quoted, Mr. Staunton's opponent is 
described as " one of the best players of the age." 

106. Game n. — We consider this absolutely disadvantageous. The proper continuation is 5 O — Q, 5 Kt 
XP ; 6 R— K sq., 6 P— Q4; 7 BxP, 7 QXB ; 8 QKt— B3, 8 Q— KR4; 9 KtxKt, 9 B— K2; 10 B— 

Kt5, with the better game. 

107. Game n. — Black had much the better position and a P ahead. There was not the slightest neces- 
sity for giving up the material advantage, and he ought to have proceeded with P — Q3. 

108. Game n. — The "hole " here formed might have been fatal to White toward the end of the game as- 
will be seen, and, at any rate, it exposes him to a strong attack. 

109. Game n. — We do not think that the sacrifice of the two Pawns which follows is warranted by the 
position. He could have established the majority of Pawns on the Queens' side with a very good 
game 011 account of his having two Bishops by P — KB3. 

110. Game 1 1. — This is loss of time and helps the opponent to force a longer diagonal for his B. Q — Tte 
was evidently better at once. 

111. Game 1 1 . — An excellent coup which qualifies the leader of Black's game as a strong player. 

112. Game n. — It is singular that Black should have had here an opportunity of executing a similar mate 
to that which Morphy had in his celebrated game with Paulsen. Compare Four Knights' Game. 
The right move was 28. .. .P — KKt3 ; whereupon after 29 BxP ch. (there is nothing better), 29. 

QXB ! ; 30 KtXQ, mate follows by 30 B— B6 ch.; 31 K— Kt sq., 31 R— Kt7 double ch. ; 32 K 

moves, 32 R — Kt8 mate. 

Vienna v. London. 

Game 12. — Black's ninth move has the merit of preventing the immediate development of the first 

player's attack, and compels the latter, sooner or later, to play P — KKt3, thereby weakening the 

Pawns on the K's side. 

Game 12. — The utmost that White could have obtained by taking the Kt on his 24th move, would 

have been to recover the Pawn lost, in which case, we thought Black's position for the end game 

would have been preferable. Thus 24 KtxKt, 24 Q— 64 ch.; 25 K — R sq., 25 RxR ch.; 26 RX 

R, 26 BXB ch.; 27 KXB, 27 QxKt.; 28 QxP, 28 Q— B sq.; 29 P— Kt3, 29 P— 63 ; followed by 

K— B2+. 

Game 12. — By this move we consider Black obtained a clear winning position. 

Game 12. — And the game was given up as drawn, Vienna having resigned the other game. London, 

however, had much the best of the encounter ; and, had the game been played out, would jn all 

probability have won. 

*8 

THE TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

This defence is in reality a counter-attack on Black's third move, which being 
[jo early instituted ought to be disadvantageous to the second player on principle. 
(According to the German Handbuch the first mention of this highly interesting open- 
ing is made by the Italian author Polerio 1590. 

Our main idea how to treat the first players' game is laid down, as usual, in Col. it 
and rests on the entirely new 9th move, for White, that seems to have escaped the atten- 
tion of all analysts, being no doubt opposed to the manner of the old school which often 
was too eager to guard the King's side too much. In the present instance we do not 
, think that the doubling of the KRP can do White as much harm, as it weakens the 
defence by exchanging an active B and giving White two Bishops. It will be observed 
that the KRP is safe enough, for if Black after exchanging plays Q — Q2, White's B can 
enter at KKt4, In some cases White may even castle on the King's side, but not 
without due precautions against the formation of an attack by B — Q3 and Q — K4. But 
the extra P on the Q side will more than fully outweigh any disadvantage in White's 
situation of Pawns on the other wing which can be sufficiently protected. To this 
column should be added the following new variation : If 6. . . .B — Qz ; 7 Q — K2, 7 

B— Q3 ; 8 QKt— B3, 8 O— O (or 8 P— KR3; 9 BXB ch., 9 QXB ; 10 KKt— K4, 

loKtXKt; nQXKt, n P— KB4 ; 12 Q— KR4, 12 O— O ; 13 P— QR3— if 13 P— 

QKt4, 13 B— K2— 13 P— QB4 ; i4 P— Q3+) ; 9 BXB, 9 QXB; 10 P— QR3, 

JOP_QB4; iiP-Q3+. 

In Col. 6 we merely show that the resort of Kt — KR3 is not as good in conjunction 
with B — R4 as when the KB is concentrated for the defence on the King's wing. Black 
gets a little advantage in position as he recovers his P, and White's Queen's centre is kept 
weak. The two Bishops are of little account in that position. How to play for Black 
against 9 KKt — 63 is shown in subsequent columns. 

The line of play adopted by White in the loth move in Col. 3, namely, the retreat 
oftheKt — Kt sq., has not been considered worth sufficient notice by the authorities. 
But we have given it some analysis, especially as the attempt of White to win a piece 
leads to some brilliancies. In Cols. 4 and 5 we give a new key move to the counter- 
attack in reply to 10 Kt — KS, namely, P — KKt4 applied respectively on the nth and 
i 2 thmoves for Black. Cols. 7 and 8 are presented not so much on account of their 
practical value than as examples of sacrificing tactics which Black is enabled to institute 
owing to the undeveloped state of the adverse game. Compare especially Note 3. 

Col. 9 answers the entrance of White's Kt — K5 in a new manner and secures a draw 
which for some tournament purposes might be enough for the defence, considering that 
according to Col. i White ought to win. In Cols. 10 and 12 White wins against 
new counter-attacks, which in previous variations held good, but cannot be recommended 
under altered conditions. In Col. 1 1 three different lines of play for Black, which may 
be brought about by transpositions of moves, are demonstrated in favor of the first 
player, though hitherto it has been considered doubtful which side had the advantage. 

The idea of Col. 1 3 is old, though it is little known that it originated with the 
author about 23 years ago, for the books only accredited us with the move Q — Q6 for I 
Black, which may come in at the I5th or i6th move respectively, whereas the whole I 
variation, from this point up to Black's 25th move as given in the main line of play in ' 
note 28, occurred first between the Rev. W. Wayte and ourselves. The identical moves j 
occurred afterward between Mr. C. E. Ranken and the Rev. W. Wayte. This is not so extra- 
ordinary considering that the moves on each side, from the i5th move of Black, are not 
alone the most plausible but are almost all forced. In Col. 14 we arrive at a different ] 
conclusion from those of previous authors by the new process n KKt — Q2. Col. 15 is 
quoted from the Handbuch. The line of play pointed out in Col. 16 has never 
occurred in practice to our knowledge, but it seemed to us sufficiently interesting to be 
worth investigation. In Col. 1 7 we ventured an analysis based on an idea of Lowenthal, 
but we disagree with his conclusions. The key move of Col. 18 was hitherto supposed 
to lead to an even game, but we think our improvement, 8 Q — K sq. instead of 8 P 
— QB3, will support our view that White's majority of Pawns can be maintained with the 
better game. 

In Cols. 19 to 22 inclusive we introduce our new defence or counter-attack in the 
leading variations of this opening, in which White sacrifices a piece. The idea of giving 
up the QKtP at once was first published in the International Chess Magazine, 
Avhence it was quoted in the Lipschutz edition of Gossip's Manual In the next 
column an example is given in favor of White, if Black proceed in the old way by 9. ... 
P — 63 instead of 9. ... P — QKt4, which we recommend. 

In Col. 25 a suggestion of the Rev. W. Wayte which appears to us some improve- 
ment on the Handbuch attack, is taken up and analytically extended, while in the 
next column the Handbuch variations are also shown to result in favor of the attack, 
though with greater difficulty and with novel additions at the end. 

Cols. 27 and 28 are new and we thought them interesting, though they may be of no 
more than theoretical value. 29 and 30 are already well known. The former was first 
published by Zukertort, and of the latter Staunton is the author. 

On the next table Col. 32 is quoted from the Handbuch, while Cols. 31 and 33 
dealing with the same subject are materially altered. But most remarkable is the line of 
play treated in the three next columns. We find the key move and some variations 
quoted by Salvioli from Lolli, an old Italian writer. On close examination we come to 
the conclusion that the preparation move, 6P — Q4, is the best key move to the attack 
and that there is no satisfactory defence to it. Therefore it must be regarded as far 
superior to 6 KtXBP, which was hitherto in fashion. 

The table following deals with the attacks 4 P — Q4 respectively 4 O — O, which were 
much in favor for some time with players or theorists who wished to avoid the complica- 
tion arising from 4 Kt — Kt5, or perhaps distrusted the latter attack. But we think that they 
only lead to an even game at the utmost, and in the majority of cases would be unfavor- 
able for the first player, whereas our Col. i and Cols. 34 to 36 established the superiority 
of White against the two chief lines of defence, or respectively counter-attacks, viz. : 
5 Kt— QR4 and 5. . . 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

93 

.P— K4 ~KKt— B3 

ftB— 64 J Kt—Kts CPXP 

lp— K4 "QKt— B3 
fiB-Kt5 ch. 

"Kt-B3 4p_ g4 bgKt— R4 

Dp_B3 

First Continuation ... 

7, , . . . _ . 
PXP 

fl3-1^1 Cob 

Second Continuation 

Q \^Ui». 

- Cols 276 

Third Continuation 

0 

Col* ic 1 6 

.Kt—Kts rpXp 

8 
i, 

_ P_Q3 ? j^^uiij f*L - 

R 

. 

*P— Q4 bgKt— R4 

0 (/ 

Col 17 

P— KR3 

Col 18 

.Kt—Kts r?XP 

n n 

KB— QB4 
pKtXBP jjQ— B3 ch. 0Kt— B3 

4p_Q4 &KtXP 
First Continuation ... 

bK— Kt /K— K3 ^Kt—Kts 
9 XT — -*v4 

. 

First Defence .... 

9_ . 

Cols IO to 22 

Second Defence - 

P— QKt4 ! 

- Col 2? 

Second Continuation 

P— B3 

- Col 24 

TV 

4 Kt—Kts ..PXP 

RKtXBP 7Q-B3 ch. nKt~B3 

Cols. 25, 26. 

4P_Q4 UKtxP 
.Kt—Kts rpXP 

«KxKt 'K— K3 ^Kt— K2 
6v^/— • Jtx5 

- Cols 27 28 

"VT 

.Kt—Kts 

First Continuation • 

-B— P ch. 

b 

cKtxBP 

Cols 3i to 33. 

VTT 

.Kt-Kts -PXP ( 

b 

First Tiffpncp 

f 

6. . 

Col TA 

PXP 

. . Col 55 

Third Defence 

6. . 
P— KR3 

- - Col. 36. 

VTTT 

lp-°4 

eB-K2 

Po— o 

Cols. 57 to 40. 

b 

. - Col. 41. 

TX 

.0-0 

• 5 

. . Col. 42. 

94 

9KKt-B3 

1 WU KIM1L 
B-B4 

rJrllb' LU£F£m;i£. 
jKt-KtS 

lp— K4 
1 

flQKt— B3 

2 

QB-R4? 

"Kt— B3 

3 

nKt— Ktsq. 

4p_Q4 

4 

B-K2 

'PXP 

B-K2! 

Op in?-, 

"r — -rvf^3 

QKKt-KR3Dl 

UP— KR3 
QKKt-B3 

UP— KR3 
nKKt-B3 

"fixKt 

mPxB 

UP-KS 

Q-K2 4 

aP-K5 
Kt-K5? 

11B~B3 

1UB_K3 
nKt-K5 1 

"KB— QB4 

1UB_Q3 7 
. P-KB4 

Hp-K5 

11Q-Q5 l 
4 QBxP ch. 4 

AO— o 

?P-QKt4 

AAp_KKt4! 

12P"Q4 

A 2g_K4 
4 0B— Kt2 + 3 

l^KtXB 
. qKtXKt . 

KXB 

11BXP 

Id 

1 
1 

"Kt— Kts cl 
K-Ksq. 

Q-Q? 

4g_R5 ch. 

nP-QKt3 

Q-B3 + 

6 AOP_K6 D 
' RQBXKP 

PXP 

— R4 
5 

6 

8p_KR3 
gKt-KR3 

— Bsq. 

-KKt4 8iftKi— Kt2+lO 

.B-RS 

^KR— R2 

Column i. Move 9. KKt — R3. 

BLACK. 

i II 

2k ^O^ ^ Y/TJTT/// «""^= %^^ ^ %£h/// 

Column 4. Move 15 P— K6. 

BLACK. 

...... 

WHITE. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 95 

1. Col. i. — Much better than Kt — KB3, which seems to have been assumed, hitherto, as the only move 

for White. 

2. Col. i.— We see no other way of pursuing the attack for Black, since, if White be allowed to play P 
— Q3, his position will be perfectly safe, and he may even castle on the King's side afterward with- 
out any danger. 

3. Col. i.— Continued: 13. .. ,B— Q3; 14 Q— K2, 14 O— O; 15 P— Q3, 15 PxP ; 16 QxQ, 16 BxQ ; 

17 PxP. White is a P ahead, and after bringing out his B to K3 he may castle on the Q side or 
even play K — K2 and his two Bishops and the extra P on the Q side secure him the advantage. 

4. Col. 2.— If 10 Kt— KS, 10 Q— Qs, etc. 

5. Col. 2. — From the German Handbuch. 

6. Col. 3.— Continued: 16 Q— K2, 16 B— Ry, 17 QxB (after 17 P— Kt5, 17 PxP; 18 QxKt, 18 PX 
B ; 19 Kt— K2, 19 Kt— 65 ; 20 R— B sq., 20 Q— K2 ; Black has also an irresistible attack), 17 Q— 
67 ch.; 18 K— Q sq., 18 KR— Q sq.; 19 K— 62, 19 Kt— K6 ch. ; 20 K— Kt2, 20 Kt (K6)— 65 ch.; 
21 K — B2,2i Q — B8, and wins. 

7. Col. 4. —10 Q — B2 may also be played here, and is likely to lead, by a transposition of moves, to- 

the variations in Col. 5. 

8. Col. 5.— Black also gets here the best of the game, by 12 PX? e. p. ; 13 KtXP, 13 B— KKt5 ; 

as recommended by the Rev. W. Wayte. This variation might be continued 14 QKt — Q2, 14 O — 
O, 14 K — 62 (if 15 O— O, 15 Kt — Q4, etc.) ; 15 QR— K sq., followed by P— QB4, with an excel- 
lent attack. 

9. Col. 5.— Continued : 16 P— Kt6 (or 16 PxB, 16 PxP ; 17 QBxP, 17 QX?+) ; 16. . . .BxRP ch.; 

17 K— R sq., 17 R— Kt2 ; 18 PxP ch., 18 K— B sq.; 19 BxP, 196—65; 20 BxR ch., 
21 P— KKt3, 21 B— Q3 ; 22 B -Kt6, 22 KxB ; 23 P Queens, 23 Q— R2ch., and wins. 

Col. 6.— Continued 13 Kt— R3, 13 QxRP ; 14 P— Kt5, 14 Kt— Qsq.; 15 Q— K2, 15 Q— K$ ; 16 
PXP, 1 6 KtxP ; 17 Q— R6, 17 6—64+. 

96 

P-K4 

— K4 

9KKt-B3 QB-B4_ 

"QKt— B3 " UKt— B3 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 
.Kt— Kt5 

pB-Kt5 ch. 

-R4 Op— B3 

8 

PXP 

PXP 

B-K2 

«P— KR3 

nKKt-B3 
HP— K5 

inKt~K5 
IUB-Q3 

Kt-Kt4 
AlKtxKt 

14 

Q-K2 

9 

10 

Q-Q5 

P— KB4! 
KB— $64 

,R-B sq. 

10 

11 

12 

14iOQ_Q4 

,P-Q4 15, 

IHIQ-O X^Q— R5 ch. 

.P— KKt3 . _Kt - B3 13 4 rK— Q2 16 

D 

D 

Kt— Kt2 2O 

1 Ap— Kt4 

12P-B3 

17 

13 

Q-Q3 

^ *•* A t " y-tvt 

e.p. 

QXP 

24 

— QR4! 214rKt— B3 

,P-QKt3 4 pPXB 4 0P-QKt4 <pP-Kt5+ 23,pBXP 

~10p-K6ch. lDKt-B5 ~lDKt-Q4 

K-Bsg. 
-I / Kt- K4 12 

K-B2- 
l/Kt-1 

19 

Kt-Kt5 ch.— 

17 

25 

Column 7. Move 15 BxP- 

BLACK. 

Column 9. Move 15 

\jLrn m 

m 
'mm. * mm. 

I v\ 

% * m% 

• • 
•f1 ' B 

k 

ill*™ 

» 

WHITE. 

\VHITE. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DLFKNCE. 97 

11 Col. 7.— Threatening KtxP, followed by B— Kt6. 

12. Col. 7.— Continued: 18 QxP, 18 BxP ch ; 19 RxB, 19 QxR ch.; 20 K moves, 20 QR— K sq., 

and wins. 

13. Col. 8.— Or 15 P-KKt3, 15 Q— R6, 16 Q— B sq., 16 Q-K3 ; 17 Q— K2, 17 Kt— 65 ; 18 O— O, 
18 Kt— K4 ; 19 QxP, 19 P— KB4 ; 20 Q— KS, 20 P— 65 ; 21 PxP, 21 RxP ; 22 QxR, 22 
Q— R6 ; 23 P— KB3, 23 R— KB sq.; 24 Q— K4, 24 KtxPch.; 25 RxKt, 25 RxR, and wins. 

Col. 9. — An attempt at a similar attack by 13 Kt— Kt$ can be defeated by 14 Q— R4. 14 Q— 

R5 ch.; 15 P— Kt3, 15 QXRP; 16 QxKP, etc. 

Col. 9. -Or 14?— QKt4, 14 Q -R.5 ch.; 15 P- Kt3, 15 QXRP; i6PxB, 16 QxP ch. ; 17 R— B2, 
17 KtxKBP; 18 Q— R4, 18 Kt— R6; 19 QxKt, 19 KtxR+- 

Col. 9.— Obviously 15 P— Kt3, 15 QXRP ; 16 PxB, 16 QxP ch.; 17 K— Q2 is worse, if only on 
the ground of 17 Kt— K6 ; 18 Q— K sq., 18 KtxR ch. ; igQxKt, 19 B— R6, and White can- 
not prevent QxP ch. and QxKt. 

|7. Col. io.— Or 13 PxP, 13 PXP; 14 RXKt, 14 QxKt+. 

18. Col. io.— Better than 14 P— QKt4, 14 PxP ; 15 Kt — Kt4, 15 BxKt ; 16 BxB, 16 Q— K.t4, with a 

fine attack. 

19. Col. io.— Continued : 17 KtxKt : 18 PxKt, 18 QxP ch.; 19 K— *B2, etc. 

20. Col. ii. — The order of this and the next two moves of Black may be transposed and White will pro- 

ceed in the same way as in the text. 

21. Col. ii. — We consider this stronger than 15 Q— R4, to which Black replies 15. . . .Kt — Q sq., and 
White has only obstructed the forwarding of Pawns on the Queens' side where he has obtained the 
superiority. 

22. Col. ii.— There seems nothing better. IfP — QR3, White replies QKt— R3- 

, Col. ii.— If 16 PXP ; 17 BXP ch., and if 16 P— 64, 17 QKt— RS, etc. 

24. Col. 12.— Clearly 14 QxQ ; 15 BxQ, followed by PxP, also loses for Black. 

25. Col. 12. — Black has hardly anything better than 17.... KB — Kt2 in order to prevent Kt — Q4, 

whereupon White Castles and afterwards develops the QKt at R3. Or if 17 B— Q3 , 18 P— Q 

Kt4, 1 8 Kt— Kt2 ; 19 Kt— R3 + . 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

.P-K4 

9KKt— B3 QB-B4 

4Kt— Kts c 

PXP 

13 

pB-Kt5 ch. 

"QKt— 63 "Kt— I 

14 15 

53 

16 

QQKt— 63 

4p_Q4 
17 

RP-Q3? 

QKt— R4 

18 

P-B3 

Op— KR3 33 

KB— QB4 
0-0 

'PXP 

B-K2 

'P— KS 34 

8Q— K2 

'O— O 
RQ— K sq. 

UP-KR3 
QKt-B3 

8g_B2 
q nB-R4 31 

KtXB 
QPxKt 

Op— K5 
1flKt-K5 

inp~°4 inp"Q3 

"QB— KK 
jnKt-Q5 

LS "KB— QB435 

P— KR3 
. «Kt— K4 

1UQ__Q5 

. .Kt— KH? 

1UP-K5 lUo-0 
. . KKt— Q2 . O— O 

KtxKt 

Kt— R2 

ss* 

BXKt 

HQ— 62 Up— KR3 
9QKt-B3 29 9Kt-K4 

llR-Qsq. 

llp_K6 D 

HQ— K2 

12p_K6 

A ^P— K6 30 AflRtxKt 

1<JP— KB4 

nPxB 

nPxB 

. .K— Esq. 

1 UpxP ch. 1 Up_KB4+ 

. . Kt— K6 

l"Kt— KS 36 
. .Kt— B sq. 

UQ-Q3+ 

. pP— 63 26 

-K— Ktsq.+ 

0-0 

14g_R5 Ch. 

M 

1 OQ—Q6 ch. D 
. RQ— K2 27 

l&Kt-B5 

^P-S 

17QxQ 

16R— Q2+ 

32^6—64+ 

•1'RXQ+ 28 

'Coluir.,1 13. Move 15 Q— Q6 ch. 

BLACK. 

Column 17. Move n ... .P — K6. 

BLACK. 

• 

ill 

. 

I 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 99 

Col. 13. — This and the next move on both sides may be transposed in their order. 
Col 13.— Or 1 6 B— K2, 16 Q— Kt3 ; 17 P— Q4, 17 P— 64+. 

Col. 13.— Continued 18 P— QKt4, 18 R— K sq.; 19 B— K2, 19 R— Q3; 20 PxB (if 20 P— Q4, 20 Q 
R— K3; 21 B— R6 ch., 21 Kt— Kt2l; 22 KxP, otherwise Black plays Kt— Kt5, etc., 22 Kt— K5 ch. 

23 K— Kt sq., 23 B— Kt3 ; 24 B — Kt2, 24 R— KB3 ; followed by Kt— 67, and wins). 20 QR 

— K3 ; 21 B— R6 ch., 21 K— B2 ; 22 KxP, 22 Kt— K$ ch.; 23 K— Kt sq., 23 KtxP at QB4; 

24 B— Esq., 24 R— K8; 25 B— Kt2 (or 25 B— R3, 25 Kt— Q6; 26 P— KKt3, 26 KR— K7; followed 
by R — 67 and wins) ; 25 Kt — Q6, threatening RXB ch., and to mate next move, and Black 
ought to win. 

29. Col. 14. — 12 Kt — KB sq. is also a good move. 

30. Col. 14.— If 12. . QB— KB4 ; 13 Kt— KB sq., followed by Kt— Kt3, with an excellent game. 

31. Col. 15.— If9P— KR3, 9P— KR3; loKt— K4, loKtxKt; ii QxKt, n P— KB4+. The main 
variation is from the German Handbuch, 

Col. 1 6. —Continued 17 Q— Kt8 ch., 17 K— B2 ; 18 Kt— K*5 ch., 18 K— 63. 

Col. 17.— If 6. . . .KtxP ; 7 Q— B3, 7 B— KS ; 8 KtxB, 8 PxKt ; 9 Q— RS ch.-f . 

Col. 17. — 7. . . .QB — KKt5 as played by Mongredien against Morphy is much inferior. For after 8 

P — KR,3 8 BxKt; 9 QxB, as actually occurred, 9 P— Iv5 ; 10 Q — K2 leaves Black with 

the much inferior game as besides his being unable to recover the P, the other side has ex- 
changed the Kt, the protection of which causes him much trouble in one leading variation. 

Col. 17.— 9 B— K2 ; 10 KKt— Q2, loQB— KB4 ; n P— KB3, is much in White's favor. 

Col. 17. — The variation, so far, is suggested by Lowenthal,who recommends here 14 O — O and after 

14 Kt — Kt6; 15 Q— 63, 15 KtXR ; 16 KtxKt, dismisses the game in favor of White on the 

ground that he has two Pawns for the exchange, but as one of them is doubled and another can be 

immediately prevented from advancing by 16 P— KB4, we totally disagree with that conclusion 

and would decidedly declare the game to be in Black's favor. 

100 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

<P-K4 
IP— K4 

19 

7Q-B3 ch. 
'K— KT 

nKKt-B3 
"QKt— 63 

20 

B-B4 

Kt-B3 

KI— Kt 
Q-K4 

P— QKt4! 
B-Kt3 

Kt— B3 

21 

' 

KtxP 

1?P-KB4 37,9P-QR4 
l6P_B5 1"R_ Esq. 

B-Kt3 

jKt— Kts 
4P-Q4 

22 

KtxBP 

23 

KxKt 

24 

p— B3 

BxP 

P— QR3 46 

KtxP ch. 

K-Q sq. 

IB— R3 luKt— R3 43 

B— R4 42 . . P~Q4 

— 63 

— Q3 

PXBP 

U 

;KtxP 40 .P- 

lp_P{r "lOK 

41 

L. 38, ,KtxR 

Kt— Q6ch. + iUP— QB4 
D 

15 

B-R2 

Kt— KB3 + 

.pQ-C^ch^ 
lt5K-B2 

17 

QXQ ch. 

RXQ-I- 39 

44 4 0Q~B7 

13 

P— QKt4 
B-Kt3 + 

t— R4 ch. 

— Kt4 

Column 19. Move 13 KtxKt. 

BLACK. 

Column 21. Move 13. . . .Kt — Q6 ch. 

BLACK. 

• i 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 101 

37. Col. 19. —Or 12 KtxP, 12 Q— Q2 ; 13 Kt— 63, 13 K— Q3+. 

38. Col. 19.— Or 14 PXP dis. ch., 14 Kt (B6)— Q4 ; 15 P— QB3 (if 15 P— QR3, 15 KtxP ch., with a 

piece ahead and a good game) ; 15 Q— Kt3 ; 16 PxKt (16 QxP ch. is worse, for after 16 

K— 132 Black threatens R— K sq.); 16 Q— QS, and should win. 

39. Col. 19. — Continued : 18 KR— Kt sq., 18 PxP ; 19 RXB (if 19 B— R4, 19 6—63 and wins), 19 P 

XB ; 20 PxKt, 20 BXP ch., 20 K— Esq.; B— B 6, and wins. 

40. Col. 20.— If 13 P— Q3, 13 Q—R4, threatening BxKt+. Or 13 Kt— R3, 13 Q— 63+, 

41. Col. 21. — Against any other move Black plays Q — Q5- 

42. Col. 22.— Or ii BXB, ii KtXB ; 12 P— Q4, 12 KtxKt ; 13 QxP ch., 13 K— 62 ; 14 PxKt, 14 

Q-Ksq+. 

43. Col. 23. — Cordel in Fuhrer Durch Die Schachtheorie suggests if 10 Q— QR4; ii PxKt, ii Qx 

R ; 12 O— O, 12 B— Q3 ; 13 P— Q4, with a fine attack. 

44. Col. 23.— Stronger than 12 QB— 64, 12 K— O.2 !; and if 13 BxP, 13 KtXKt, or if 13 KtxKt, 13 
PXB, etc. 

45. Col. 23.— Continued: 13. .. .B— Kt2 ; 14 BPxP, H Q— Q2 ; 15 O— O, 15 K— K2 (White threatens 
to cut off that escape by B— KKt5) ; 16 B— Kt5 ch., 16 K— K sq.; 17 P— K6, 17 Q— Q3; 18 BX 
Kt, 18 PXB ; I9Q— 65 + . 

46. Col. 24.— 9 P— Q4 may be treated in a similar manner, namely: by 9 KtxP ch. ; 10 K— Q sq., 

10 KtxP ; ii BxKtch., ii K— Q3 ; 12 Q— 67, 12 K— 64, etc. 

102 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

— K4 

25 

26 

KKt-B3 

"QKt— B3 

27 

28 

4 
29 

t— Kt5 

30 

(;_^_ 

UKtvp. 

KtxP 
KtxBP 

KxKt 

6 

yQ-B3 ch. 
'K— K3 
nKt-B3 

OKI— K2 

Op— B3 47 

. nQB-KKt5 

lUp— KR3! 

11B-R4 48nQBxKt 

HP— KKH 

4 oB-Kt3 • 

B— Kt2 49 

pxp 

O_O— O 
1"B— Kt4ch. 
. QK— Ktsq. 
l«jR_Bsq. 

tQ— B2 Tl<— B5 

.O—O ,• rQxPch. 

>R-B sq. 13K-B2 

,KR— Ksq. , pKtXKt 

5D^r ch. 
K=K7~ 

51 

OKI— B3 

7E~Kt3 
'P-Q4 

'QxKt ?P-KB3 

BxKt KtxRP__53 Q^ 

Kt— Q sq. 52 0Kt— Q5 

8 

17 

HE: 

18 

ch. 

K— Esq. 
B— Kt3!+50 

Kt-B3 

— K2 

LP— KR3 

>Q-Kt3- 

JKt-Ks— 

nQXKt 
"QXQ 

10^ 

ch. 

K-Qsq. 

"K-Q2 

jnKt-B7 
l^Q-Ksq. 

, A KtxR 

K-Q sq. 

K-B sq. 

Kt-K3 

RP-Q4 

Dp— KR3 56 

^KtxKt 

'KXB 

flP— Q5 

OKt— K2 
gQ-R5 ch. 

. . Q— B4 ch. 
UK— Ktsq. 

12 

QKt-B3+ 57 

14 

-QB4 

,QKt-R3+54 

'KB— QB4+D 

Column 25. Move 17. Q— R$. 

BLACK. 

Column 29. Move I3 . . . . B — QB4. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 103 

47. Col. 25.— Best. If 9. . . .PxP ; 10 KtxKt, followed by Q— ICj. ch., wins. 

48. Col. 25. — An excellent move suggested by the Rev. W. Wayte. 

49. Col. 25.— If 12. . . .PXP ; 13 O— O-O, 13 PxKt ; 14 KR— K sq. ch., 14 K— Q2 ; 15 BxKt, 15 P 

XB ; i6RxPch., 16 K— K sq.; 17 Q— RS mate. 

Col. 26. — Salvioli quotes the following continuation from Allgaier : 18. . . .R — 64 (if 18. . . . 
19 Q— QB5 ch., 19 Q— K2;— for if B-K2 the reply, Q— 64 wins— 20 Q— Q5, 20 R— B2; 21 QR— 

K sq., 21 Q— B2 ; 22 KR— B sq., 22 B— B3 ; 23 Q— K4, 23 R— K2 ; 24 Q— R;, 24 

K— K sq.; 25 Q— Kt8 ch., 25 K— O.2; 26 B— R4 ch., 26 K— Q3 ; 27 RxB ch., 27 PxR ; 28 Q— 
KKt3 ch., 28 K— Q4 ; 29 Q— B3 ch., 29 KxP (or 29 K— Q3; 30 Q— QR3 ch. + ), 30 Q— Q3 ch., 
30 K— B4; 31 Q— Kt5 ch., 31 K— Q5 (or K— (£5, 32 R— Q sq. ch. and Q-Q5 mate); P— 63 ch., 
and wins) ; 19 Q — K4, 19 Q — B2, and now in the illustrative game given by Allgaier, White 
played Q — Q3, but we believe he can win at once by QR — K sq., followed by P — Kt4 and 

Q-R7- 

Col. 27. — If 6 Q— Q2, White obviously wins a P at once by KtXBP or QxBP ch. 

Col 27.— 8 Kt— Q5 would lose on account of 9 QxP ch., 9 K— Q sq. ; 10 P— KR4, ro.Q— Kt5 

(or 10 Q— K2; 11 QxQ ch., II BxQ; 12 K— Qsq.); II Q— B6 ch., II K— Q2; 12 Kt— 63, and 

53. Col. 28.— 8 BxKt, 8 Kt— Q5; 9 B— 67 ch., 9 K— K2; 10 Q— R3 ch., 10 K— Q2; 11 Q— Q3, n PX 

Kt; 12 P— 63, 12 K — K2 will, we believe, give White no advantage, albeit he can win a P by 13 
PXKt, i3 KxB; 14 Q— 63 ch., for after 14 K— Kt sq., White's game is in such an unde- 
veloped state that he cannot long maintain his material superiority. 

54. Col. 28.— White will catch the imprisoned Kt by P— QKt3, and B— Kt2. 

55. Col. 29. — This ingenious variation was published by Zukertort in theCity of London Chess Magazine. 
White has no good defence. If, for instance, 14 Q— K sq., 14 Q— R4; 15 QBxP, 15 R— K sq.;- 16 
Q— Q2, 16 B— K7 ch. ; 17 KtxB, 17 RxKt, and wins. 

56. Col. 30.— 6 PXP is fatal on account of 7 B— Q5, and if 7 Kt— 63 ; 8 Q— Kz ch. Again, i£ 

6.'. . .KtXP ; 7 P— QB3, 7 QKt— 63 ; 8 B— Q5, and wins. 

57. Col. 30. — This variation is given by Staunton. 

io4 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

.P-K4 

9KKt-B3 nB-B4 

jKt—I 

^ 

IP— K4 

31 

UQKt— B3 UKt— 63 

33 ^ 34 

4 
35 

36 

rKtxBP 

\^ rPxr94 

o-o5 

RQ.-K2? pR-Bsq? RP-^! 

OB-B4 

°Kt— Q5 °B— B4 Opxp 65 
7P-KKt3 »P— KKt3 ,,0-G 

P— KR3 

B— K2 
7KtXBP 

/QKtxP 58 
pB-K3 ! 59 

'KtXQ 'QxRP 'B— K3 

pFxQ n^~K2 62 OR— Ksci- 66 

'PxKt 
QBxKt 

'KxKt 
gQ-B3 ch. 

UP— Q4 6O 

-KtxP 

0(i)Kt_g5! BRtxKtP "Q— Q2 
QKtxR «PxKt QKtxBP D 

UP— KB3 
QBxKt ch. 

Kt-B3 

OPXB 
jjBxKt 

"KtxP ch. "^XP ch. "KxKt 67 
• «K — K2 . «K — Q sq. . pQ-B3ch.-f68 

Q p^ t> 

. nQXQBP ch. , 

« Kt— Kts 
,nQ-K4 

BXB 

IWRtXR? 611UR-Bsq. 
iiQ-^S 63 

1UB-Q2 
44Q-K4+ 

P-QR3 " 

9Q-Q5 ch. 

ilp— 64 D 
64 

,9Kt-Q6 D'blech. 

11 

HKt-R3 
j nQXP ch. 69 

fiKt-K.3 

nQxP(QB5) 

1«K— K2 

l«K— Ba 

. Kt — Q3 + 

RXR^ 

! jjBxP ch. 

— B sq. 70 

Column 33. Move n. . . .P — Q4. 

BLACK. 

Column 34. Move 9. KtxBP. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 105 

Col. 31.— Or 7 BXP ; 8 B— K/j, 8 BxP? ; 9 KtXR, 9 BxR; icQ— Q5, and wins. 

Col. 31.— Stronger and more simple than 8 KtXR, 8 P— Q4; 9 B— K2 ! (if 9 BxP, 9 QB— KKt5, 

followed by Kt— B6 ch., and wins); 9 QKtxQBP ; 10 B— Kt5 ch., 10 P— 63 ; u QxKt, u 

PXB, and Black has still a strong attack. If, however, 8 P— QB3,? 8 KtxKBP ; 9 RxKt, 9 
Kt — K3 and wins. 

Col. 31— If 8....Kt— Q3 ; 9 KtXR, 9 KtxB; 10 BxKt, 10 BxB (or io....QxB; u Q-Rs 
ch. + ) ; u P— QB3, u B— Kt3 ; 12 Q— Q.5, 12 Kt— Q3 ; 13 Q— Kt8 ch.+ 

31. Col. 32. — This variation is quoted from the Handbuch. 

132. Col. 33.— If 8 KtXR, 8 BxP ch. ; 9 K— K2, 9 Q— R4 ch. ; 10 K— Q3, 10 Kt— QKt5 mate. 
33. Col. 33.— Black threatens P—Q4 followed by B— KKt5- IfiiR— 63, n Q— R$ ; 12 KtxP; 12 
Q — R8 ch. and wins. 

84. Col. 33.— Or 12 KtxP dis. ch., 12 P— KKt3 ; 13 RxR ch., 13 BxR; 14 QxRP, 14 KtxKt+. 

35. Col. 34.— If 6. . . .KtXP ; 7 P— QB3, 7 P— KR3; 8 KtxBP, 8 KxKt; 9 PxKt+. 

86. Col. 34. — Threatening 9 RxB ch., 9 PxR ; 10 KtxKP, 10 Q— Q2; II BxKt, and wins. 

37. Col. 34.— Of course, if Q— Kt, White answers BxKt. 

•38. Col. 34.— For if K— Kt sq., White answers RxB. 10 K — Kt3 subjects him to mate at once by 

., followed by B — Oj, and if 10 K — K sq. ; II BxKt, etc. 

Col. 36.— Better than 12 B— KB4, 12 Kt— B2 ; 13 BxP, 13 K— B2 ; 14 QBxKt, 14 QxB; 15 KtX 
Kt, 15 PxKt; 16 QXP ch., 16 K— Kt3- Again, if 12 P— KB4, 12 Kt— 62; 13 BPxP, 13 K— 62, 
and Black escapes. 

Col. 36. — We quote this variation from Salvioli, and we would now continue 15 Q — R5, 15 Q — K sq. 

(if 15 P— KKt3 ; I6Q-K5, etc.); 16 Q— 63 ch., 16 6—63 dis. ch.; 17 B—K3, with three 

Pawns for the piece and a fine attack. 

io6 

.P-K4 
IP— K4 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 
QKKt-B3 

37 

P~Q4 

38 

t-B3 

39 40 

O— O 

R-K sq. 

B-K2 77 

'QXB 
Kt-B3 

P-Q4 

- sq. 

QXB 

QRXKtch. 71 QKtxKt! 73 nKt— B3 
"B— K2 "B— Ki 

KtxP 

8 

9p— QB4 

nP-QKt3 74.nKtxP 
1UQ_Q4 lUp 

pxp 

R-^ 

ilo-o 

KtxKt 

— K2 75 

Kt-K4 

JKt-B3 

41 

•P— K5 

42 

0-0 

c^=5l 

°P-Q4 

>KB-QKt5 0Q-K2 
81 

'B— Q2 

RXB ch. 0BxKt 

>KtxR 
,B-Kt3 

nQ-K2 

Hp-QB3 

Q_Bsq. 

l £i g_B2 7 9 1 u B— K2— 
,B— K15 ch. . nB— R4 ch- 

7 2 A u QR— K sq. -1 " K— 62 
4lQ-R3ch.— 4IQ 

C-Q sq.— 76 J-^P— Kt3 

.-Q-R4_D_78 

'K— B sq. 

.QB-KKts+D 
* ~8O 

QKtXP 
Kt-B3 

Q0-0 QKtxKt 

"P— QB4 HB— K 

nKKt-B3 

K2+ 8 

Column 59. Move 15. Q— R4- 
BLACK. 

Column 40. Move 14. QB — KKt5- 

X ' 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 107 

|1. Col. 37.— Or 9 KtxKt, 9 B— K2 ; 10 B— Kt5, 10 P— KB3 + . For White will not get enough for 
any attempt at sacrificing a piece, e. g.\ 11 KtXP ch., 11 PxKt ; 12 BX?, 12 R— B sq.; 13 BxB 

13 KtXB ; 14 Kt— K5, 14 R — 64, and ought to win. 

72. Col. 37. — The main column is quoted from the Handbuch. The continuation might be: 14 R — QB4* 

14 P— 64; 15 B— 64, 15 B— K-3 ; 16 R— 63, 16 B— Q3 ; 17 BxB, 17 PxB. In this position we 
slightly prefer White, though by best play on the part of Black a draw ought to be the result. 

73. Col. 38.— After 9 RxKt ch., 9 B— K/3 ; Black maintains his P with the better game. For if 10 KtX 
P, 10 O— O— O ; 1 1 B— K3, 1 1 6—64, etc. 

74. Col. 38.— If 10 B— KtS, 10 B— Kts ; n P— 63, 11 PxP ; 12 PxP, 12 B— Q4+. 

75. Col. 38. — The Lipschutz Appendix to Gossip's Manual points out that if II KB— QB4 ; 12 P — 

QB4, and wins; for if 12 PX? e-p-, then 13 Kt— B6 ch., followed by QxQ- Or if 12 Q— 

KB4 ; 13 Kt — R4, 13 Q — Kt5 ; 14 Kt — B6 ch., and again wins the Q. Otherwise Black obviously 
loses the KB. 

76. Col. 38.— The game ought to end in a draw by best play. After 15 P— QB4, 15 Q— KR4 ; 16 QR 
— Q sq., White recovers the P with an even game. 

\77. Col. 39.— An innovation by Schallopp. 

\ff&. Col. 39. Black's position is, no doubt, difficult to defend, but we think that the continuation 15 

. . . .P— KR3 ; 1 6 KtXP, 16 B— K3 ; 17 B— B6, 17 R— R2, ought to give Black the best of the 
game. 

*79. Col. 40. — Some authorities dismiss the game here as even. 
ISO. Col. 40.— White threatens R— QB sq., followed by QxP or 

$81. Col. 41.— Or 7 O— O, 7 B— Q2; etc. But not good for Black is 7. . . .QB— KKt5 ; 8 QxP, 8 BX 
Kt (or 8. . . .KB— QB4 ; 9 Q— R4, 9 B— Q2 sq.; loP— 64, 10 P— QR3 ; n PXP, " PXB ; 12 Q— 
B2, 12 B— B4.— If 12. . . .Kt— K2; 13 QxKt, 13 B— B4; 14 Q— K2+;— 13 PXKt, 13 PxP ; 14 p~ 
QKt4+) ; 9 PXB, 9 Kt— Kt4 ; 10 Q— 63+. 

182. Col. 42.— 9.... PXKt; 10 QxKt, 10 BxKt (or 10. . . .PxKt; II QxB, II PxP ; 12 R— K sq. 
ch., etc.) ; II PxB, 11 PxP ; 12 Q— K4 ch., is in White's favor, 

io8 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

i 

.P— K4 nKKt— B3 nB— B4 .Kt— Kt 

5 rpXP 

RB-Kt5 ch. 

IP— K4 flgKt— B3 "Kt— B3 4p_Q4 

Game 1. Game 2. Game 3. 

Dufresne. Dufresne. Salvioli. 

ANDERSSEN DUFRESNE MORTIMER 
S— VonderLASA. ST. BON. 

UQKt— R4 

Game 4. 

Salvioli. 

HIRSCHFELD 
KOLISCH. 

B-K2 

Game 4— Cont'd. 
q.g R5ch. 

7pxP 

B-K2 0B-R4 

8Q — B3 

OP-KR3 Op_KR3 
QKt-B3 1 nKKt-B3 

PXB 

QgxR 

UP— KR3 
KKt-B3 

op-K5 NP-KS 

i nKt~K5 i nQ~K2 

aKt— Kt2 

1 nQxP 

OP— KS 
1(1Kt-K5 

1UQ-Q5 1UB_K3 10 

. .P-KB4 ..jKt-Ks 

1UKB— gB4 
Ug— R6 

^B4 

. 9R— B sq. 9BXP ch. 

0-0 
-inQXP 

llKB-gB4 
19R-Bsq. 

l"Kt— Kt2 2 l"KtXB 

jnKKt— B3 14 

1/jQ Q~ 22 

Iug_g3 l^KB— gB4 11 

HKt — Kt sq. 

l"Kt— Kt2 

, rP— QKt4 r^~Kt7 cll> 

Q_Q- 

1i;g-K2 

**Kt— Osq. 

P_gKt4 

13B— Kt3 lUK— g3? D 
, «Kt-R3 pP— KB4 

1JQB— KKts 

1BQ-K3 

Kt^R3 

1D0_O 10g_B7ch. 12 
17gKt-B4 17K-Qsq. 

lbQ-Q4 
17g-KKt3 is 

1UB-K3 
17QKt-B4 

A/g— B2 1/gxBp is 

<QB— gR3 jnQ— B6ch. 

1/BxPch.D16 

,«gxB 17 

1/BxKt 
1flBxfi 

10Kt-g4 lOKxKt 
A nKKtxgB 4 nP— g4 ch. and 

jnQ-Kt3 

loo— o 

10gxKt lOffins 
9flKt-K5 

nnBXP 

^P*~Kt4 

^ug-K2 

ojP-Kts 4 

"UR— Ksq. ch. 
91K-Bsq. 

pZ^f/ 

£llg— R4ch. 
99P — K-t3 

"^g— Kt4ch.l8 

«IK— R2 
99o-o-o 

""gxRP 

nnBxR 

ogQ-B3 

«"P— B4 
9nQ-Kt3 

""gxKtPch. 

niQ-Q34C 19 

«"KKt— KB3 

Qy|P— Q4 

"^KtxBPch.DS 
nrPXKt 

nrQKt-B3 

u4g — B2 
?rB-K6 

9pB— K7 6 

g-B44 20 

flOp Kt3 
9RP-Kt4 

97Kt-B4 

B-Ksq. 

""KtxB 23 

97QxKt 

"'PXP 
9 g-R3 s. 

L 1 g_B4 ch. 

"'PXKtP 

"OgxRch. 
?QK— B2&wms. 

""BxKt and wins. 
21 

«Bp— Kt4 

"OgR-gBsq.24 
R-g7ch.D25 

U^K— Kt2 
ocQXPch. 

UUKtxR 

UOK-B3 
g_Kt6ch. 

UiK-Rsq. 
n9QXPch. 

q7Q-Kt;ch. 26 

U"K— Ktsq. 

«J'R— B3 

White mates in 
six moves. 27 

3 UK— Rsq. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 109 

Anderssen v. S — — . 

1. (lame I. — In our Col. I we recommend here KKt — R.3. The Kt on that square is merely threat- 

ciail with an exchange for a B, which we believe is favorable for the first player. The doubling of 
his K KP amounts to little in view of his being a P ahead on the other wing and his obtaining two 

I.ishops. 

2. < lame i.— 12 Q— Q sq. proposed in our Col. 9 yields, we believe, a stronger attack than this 

3. ( lame i.— Compare our Col. 1 1 , where we suggest P — QR4 as the preferable move at this juncture. 

4. clame I. — Leading to complications in which both parties display great ingenuity. But White's 

soundest play here was 21 P— KKt3, still threatening to win an additional P and giving Black no 
chance of instituting an attack against the King's side. 

5. (lame i. — Black conducts the attack with high-class ingenuity. The sacrifice of the Kt in addition 

to the R already given up was, we believe, quite sound if it had only been pursued properly. 

6. Game I. — White had evidently relied on this fine though simple-looking move for breaking the 
attack otherwise threatened. If, for instance, 26 KtxQBP, 26 B— K6 ; 27 Q— Kt4, 27 QxR ch.; 
28 K— B2, 28 QXP ch. and wins. Yet White ought still to lose as will be seen. 

.7. Game I . — A mere transposition of moves which does not appear to be of much importance at first sight 

costs Black an excellently played game. First: 26 PxP ; 27 BX?,! 27 QxR ch., would have won. 

The most probable continuation was then 28 K — B2, 28 R — B sq. ch. ; 29 Kt — B6, 29 RxKt ch. ; 
30BXR, 30 QXR; 31 BxKt, 31 Q— Q6 ch.; 32 K— Kt2 (if 32 K— B sq., Black drives him to 
Kt2 by B— K6 ch.) 32. . . .B— Q$ ch. ; 33 K— B sq., 33 Q— B 8 ch. ; 34 Q— Q sq. (if 34 K— B2, 34 
Q— K; ch., 35 K— Kt3, 35 Q— Q8 ch. ; 36 K— Kt4,— if K— R3, Black drives the King into a mat- 
ing or otherwise losing position by B— Kt7 ch. and Q — Q5 ch. — 36 B— B6 ch. ; 37 K— Kt5, — or 

37 K— R3, 37 B— Kt7 ch., etc.,— 37 Q— Q2 ch. and wins), 34 B— K6 ch. ; 35 K— 62, 35 Q 

— 65 ch., followed by Q — Ht4 ch., winning the B. 

8. Game I. — This beautiful move now wins by force. 

9. Game i.— For if 29 Q— Q$ ; 30 R— Q sq., etc. 

Dufresne v. Von der Lasa. 

Game 2.— Better thanjo. . . .KB— 64 ; n P— Q4, 11 BxP ; 12 KtxB, 12 QxKt ; 13 Kt— 63, and 
though Pawns are even, we slightly preter White on account of the two Bishops and Black's weak 

BP. But 10 B— K2 is very weak on account of II Kt— K5, II Q— Q4 (if n Q— Q$ ; 12 

Kt— QB4 wins at once); 12 Kt— QB4,! 12 KtxKt; 13 Kt— 63, 13 Q— 64; 14 P— QKt4, and wins. 

Game 2. — If 13 B — Q2; 14 KtxKt, followed by Q— K5 ch., regains the piece with two Pawns 

ahead. (Dufresne.) 

Game 2. —An error which greatly compromises a won game. After 16 PxP^-/-; 17 KtXP, 

I7 Q— 67 ch.; 18 K— Q sq., 18 QxKtP; 19 R— K sq. (or 19 Q— R6ch., 19 B— Kt3; 20 Q— B sq., 
20 B— R6 and wins), 19 B— KKts; 20 Q— R6 ch., 20 B— Kt3; 21 Q— Q3 ch., 21 Kt— Q4; White 

has no defence. 

Game 2.— Fatal. 17. . . .KR— QB sq.; 18 Q— R6 ch., 18 B— Kt3; 19 Q— B sq., 19 Kt— Q4, would 
have still left him a fair attack for the loss of the Pawns, whether or not White exchanged Queens. 

Mortimer v. St. Bon. 

Game 3.— In the manner of our column I, White, we believe, can simplify the game by Kt— KR3, 
which avoids all complicatious arising from the attack of that Kt by P— K5. ' Should Black answer 
Q— Q4, then White may retreat Q— KB sq., followed by K— Q sq. in reply to Q— K$ ch. 

Game 2. — White could have gained here a very important move by QKt — 63. 

(Cotttinued on page ni.J 

1 10 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

GAME No. I. 

Move 24 Kt(Q4)xQBP ch. 

1 

ii* 

14 

M 1 

i 

WHITE — ANDERSSEN. 

GAME No. 2. 

Move 15 K(K2)— Q3 

BLACK— VON DER LAS A. 

WHITE — DUFRESNE. 

GAME No. 3. 

Move 17. BxP ch. 

BLACK— ST. BON. 

GAME No. 4. 

Move 30. R(Qsq)— Q; ch. 
BLACK— KOLISCH. 

iff If 

iBi 

^ 

WHITE— MORTIMER. 

WHITE— HIRSCHFELD. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. HI 

(Continued from page 

16. fiamc 3.— Very fine play and yielding Black an excellent attack. 

17. ( -ame 3.— If 18 KxB, 18 P-K6 ch. ; 19 K— B sq. (or 19 QxP, 19 R— K sq. ; 20 Q— 64, 20 Q— Kj-, 
21 KKt— B3, 21 Q-K; ch.; 22 K— Kt sq., 22 Q— Q8 ch. wins), 19. . . .Q— 64 ch.; 20 Kt— Bj 

2oQxP;2iQ-Ksq.,!2iPxP;22QxP, 22 Q—Bsch.; 23 K—Ktsq.,23R—Q sq., with a winning 

attack. 

18. ( '.ame 3.— Q— 64 ch., followed by QxP if the Queen interposed, or by Q— Kt4 ch. in reply to Kt— 
KB3, was stronger. 

10. Game 3.— Black has already a draw in hand, but takes his chances on the complications of the attack 

that follow. 

20. Game 3. — Feeble play. By R— 1C sq. he would, no doubt, have to return the piece gained, but 
would remain with a P ahead. 

21. ('ame 3. — The probable continuation is 29 PxB, 29 QxP ch.; 30 K — Kt sq., 30 R — K4; 31 KtX 

Kt, 31 KtxKt; 32 Q— B8 ch., 32 K— R2; 33 P— KR4, 33 R— KB4, and wins. 

Hirschfeld v. Kolisch. 

Game 4. — In our Col. 9 we propose here 12 Q — Q sq. , and we now add the following novel continu- 
ation: after 13 P — B3, 13 Kt— Q4; already noticed. If now 14 P — KKt3, 14 B— R6; 15 P— QKt4, 
I5BXR; I6KXB, ! 16 KtxKtP; 17 PxKt, 17 Q— Qs; 18 PxB, 18 QxK; 19 QKt— 63, 19 O— 
O; 20 Kt— Kt4, 20 KR— Q sq.; 21 Q— K sq. I 21 QR— Kt sq.; 22 Kt— K3, 22 R— Kt;; 23 BxR, 
23 QXB; 24 KtXP, 24 QxRP; even game. For though White has two minor pieces for the R, Black's 
dangerous passed P on the QR file and the looseness of White's P in the centre form a fair com- 
pensation. 

Game 4. — Attack and defence have been excellently conducted by both parties after the opening 
moves, but here we would have preferred 26. . . .R — K sq. ; for if 27 KtPxP* 27 KtxB; 28 PxKt, 
28 PxP, wiih a strong counter-attack. 

Game 4.— Black has hardly anything better. If BxP, White would also answer R — Q7 ch., and 
would win in a similar manner as in actual play. 

Game 4. — A masterly combination. 

Game 4. — It somewhat spoils this pretty game that White overlooked mate on the move by 37 
Q— K6 ch. 

Game 4.— The mate is effected as follows: 38 Q— Kt3 ch., 38 K— Cj4; 39 P— 64 ch., 39 KxP (if 

39 K— Qs; 40 R— Q sq. ch., 40 KX?; 41 Q— Kt3 mate); 40 Q— Kt3 ch., 40 K— Qs; 41 R— 

Q sq. ch., 41 K— K4; 42 R— Qs ch., 42 K— BS; 43 Q— Kt3 mate. But we believe that if Black 

had previously played 37 Kt — 63, no mate could have been effected, as Black's Q4 sq. would 

have been guarded, and if 38 P — 64 threatening BxKt2 mate, 38. . . .K — Qs, etc, 

P-K4 

•P— K4 

Game 5. 

/ 'icnna Congress, 

BIRD 
TSCHIGORIN. 

pB— Kt5 ch. 
Dp— B3 
gP 

'P 

BP 
9 

XP 

Ct— K< 

Kt— Kt4 28 

inp-KR3 

lOo-o 

4,Kt-B3 

14Kt-Bs 
\ rP-QKt3 

l&Kt— K4 

29 

17 
18 

KR — Ksq 
O-O 3O 

QKtxB 
PxKt 

>-K2 

31 

KtxP 

P— Kt3 32 

y— B4 

*1R— K3 

QR-Ksg.33 

fifiQR— Ksq. 

R-KRsg. 
fiUP— KR4 

QR-KBsg. 
fl4Q-Kt3 

n_Kt-Qsq. 34 

_K6 D35 
-4 36 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 
0KKt-B3 

QxPch. 

OO 

Kt-K3 

37 

Game 1— Cont'd. 

n^xR 
UARXP 

noQ-Qs 
0/ip_R5 

B— Q2 

38 

33 

P-R6 and wins. 

B-B4 

t-B3 

Game 6. 

Correspondence 
Game. 

WESEL C. C. 
CREFELDC.C. 

J*-9* 

39 

Game 7. 

Salvioli, 

MORPHY 
De RIVIERE. 

0-0 

KtXP 
R— Ksq. 

-J^ 

B— K2 

48 

P-Q4 

_ QKt-B3 

'QXB 

Kt- 

B3 

Kt— K4 50 

K— K2 51 

Q— KR4 
KtxKt 

— K3 

Kt— B3, 52 

KtXKt 

P— KR3 4O 

B-B6 

53 

,KtxP D41 -.0K— Rsq. 

42 

ll£ 

^/jKt— Q2 

43 

R_K 

UKtxP ch. 
K~T< 

sq. 

K-K2 
Kt-Qs ch. 

Kt— B sq. 
Q-R5 

'K— Q2 ^1UP— 

,Kt-Kt6D'blefh. —4 «Q— 

54 

17^£: 

1/R— 

Kt sq. 
, pQR-Q sq. 
lliB-Kt2 
,, nQ-Q7 ch. 

B-Bsq. 

— 83 

44 — ftrtP-B6 

t— 64 55 
— K6 D 56 

57 

v — AV4- 
ppK-Bsg. 45 

ofl|C— Kt3 

00R— K sq. 

P— By ch. 

— _R sq. 

queens 

|Q-Q3ch. 

— B3 

46 

— "IB 

a I R— KB sq. 
9pKt-B4ch. 
"0 and wins. 47 

Game 8. 

Cook. 

MacCONNELL 
ZUKERTORT. 

.Kt— QB3 

^B— Kts 5l 
5< 

QPXB 

KtXP 

nBxP ch. 

'KXB 
pQ-Q5 ch. 
°K— K sq. 
QQXKKt 
OjTZo^ i 
nQ-QR4 

11 

o-o 

4 

6J 

QR-Q sq. 

17E 

61 

P-Kt4 

6J 

«»Kt— R4 

nqB-Kt4 
«"Kt— B5 
OIQR-K2 

n passing 

27 

R— Kt sq. 
R— Q2 
RXP D 

29 

P~R7 

6J 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 113 

Bird v. Tschigorin. 

Game 5. — Our notes to this game are chiefly quoted from the Appendix to Gossip's Manual \yj 
S. Lipschutz. n P— Q4, II PxP e. /.; 12 KtX? (Q3), 12 B— Q3; 13 Kt— Q2, followed by Kt— 
63, gives White an excellent game with a P ahead. For should Black attempt 13 BxP, then 
would follow 14 P— KKt3, 14 BxP; 15 PxB, 15 QxP ch. ; 16 Kt— 82, and should win. 
Game 5. — White would have done better first to prevent the entrance of the hostile Kt by P 
-QKt3. 

Game 5.— 17 B— K2, 17 Kt— Q6 ch. (or 17 Kt— B6 ch. ; 18 K— B sq., etc.); 18 PXKt, 18 PxP; 

19 O — O, was far more favorable for White. 

Game 5.— If 19 P— B3, 19 B— B4ch. ; 20 K— R sq., 20 Q— K2, with a winning attack. 

Game 5.— 20 KtX?, 20 Q— 64; 21 P— KB3, 21 Q— KR4; 22 PxKt, 22 Q— R7 ch. ; 23 K— B2, 23 Q 

—Bsch. (or23....Q-R5ch,;24P— Kt3, 24BxPch.;— if 24. . . .Q— R7 ch. ; 25 K— B3, 25 Qx 

Q ch.; 26 KxQ, 26 RxKt ch.; 27 K— 63, with a P ahead— 25 K— Kt2, and should win) ; 24 K— 

Kt sq. was by far better play, for Black's best plan would be now to draw by perpetual ch. 

Game 5.— Ill-judged. R— KR sq., followed by QR— KB sq., was much better. 

Game 5. — Premature. R — R3 was necessary for the defence. 

Game 5. — A real master coup which forces the victory in elegant style. 

Game 5. —If 26 QPxP, 26 KtxP ch.; 27 KtXKt, 27 RxKt, threatening RxKKtP ch., and 

wins. 

Game 5. — Beautiful play, which finishes off the quickest way. 

Game 5. — 32 RxB, followed by K— B sq., if White reply QxP, was also good enough. 

Wesel Chess Club v. Crefeld Chess Club. 

Game 6. — Compare Columns 37-42. The same positions may arise in the Scotch Gambit by a trans- 
position of the 3d and 4th moves, on each side . 

Game 6. — Inferior to 10. . . .B — QKt5, which, according to the Handbuch, would lead to an even 
game thus: 11 KtxP, u QxQ; 12 KRxQ, 12 KtXKt; 13 RxKt, 13 B— BK2; 146—64,140 
— O; 15 BxP, 15 KR— QB sq.; 16 B-Q6, 16 BxB; 17 KtxB, 17 RxP; 18 KtxP, 18 RxKtP, 
etc. 
Game 6. — A fine sacrifice, which, we believe, is warranted by the position. 

Game 6.— If 12 PxB; 13 KtxB (not 13 KtxP ch., 13 K— K2; 14 Kt— Kt3, 14 R— Q sq., 

etc.), 13 PxKt; 14 KtxBP ch., 14 K— 62; 15 Q— Q 7 ch., 15 B— K2 (or 15 KxKt; 16 

R— Pch., i6K-Kt4; i7P-R4ch., 17 KxP; 18 R-Kt6, and wins); i6QxPch., 16 K— Kt2; 
17 Kt— Q5, followed mostly by R— K3, with a fine attack. 

Game 6. — This loses speedily. Their game was, however, very difficult, and, we believe, could not 
be retrieved without some loss. Probably the best defence was 13 ... R — KKt sq., and after 14 QR 
— Q sq., 14 B— K2 ; whereupon, no doubt, White would get the advantage by 15 BxP. But it should 
be noticed that if White continue 15 BxB, 15 KxB ; 16 Kt— 65, Black would break the attack 

by 16 QR— Q sq. For if White reply 17 KtxP, Black wins by QxR ch. 

Game 6.— The best plan which simplifies the game with enough material to win. 
Game 6. — Excellent play and quite decisive. 

Game 6.— After 25 R— KBsq.;26 Q— Kt6 ch., 26 K— Kt sq.; 27 Kt— K8, 27 Q— Kt4ch.; 

28 R— K2, 28 R— 62; 29 KtxB, followed by Q— K8 ch. White's game would play itself out. 
Game 6.— For if 28 K— 64 ; 29 R— Kt6 dis. ch., if 28 K— Kt4; 29 Q—Q$ ch., etc. 

Morphy v. De Riviere. 

Game 7. — 5 .... B — 64 leads to a variation in the Giuoco Piano, known as Max Lange's attack. 
The move in the text is not good. 

Game 7.— If 6. . . .KtxP ; 7 Kt— 65, 7 O -O (or 7 . . .P— KKt3; 8 Q— Qs + , or 7. . . .P— Q4; 
SKtxPch., 8K-Bsq.; 9 QB— KR6, 9 K— Ktsq.; 10 BxP-r); 8 Q— Kt4, 8 P— KKt3 (or 
S... .Kt— Kt4 ; 9KtXB ch.-(- ); 9 Kt— R6 ch.+ 

(Continued on page 115) 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

GAME No. 5. 

Move 25....?— K6. 

BLACK — TSCHIGORIN. 

GAME No. 6. 

Move 12. Kt(KB3)xP- 

BLACK— CREFELD C. C. 

WHITE — BIRD. 

WHITE— WESEL C. C. 

GAME No. 7. 

Move 19. P— K6. 

BLACK— DE RIVIERE. 

I 

i 4 •/ • * 

JlM I I & 

411 

GAME No. 8. 

Move 28. 

BLACK — ZUKERTORT. 

^ II 

m at ijm/m 

^^ ^,VTT77X^ »^52-» /V% 

III 

^P W ^ 
'l 

WHITE — MORPHY. 

WHITE — MACCONNELL. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 115 

(Continued from page 

Game 7.— Which only ultimately leaves a further mark for the hostile attack from the dangerous 
KBP, P— Q3 was much better. 

Game 7. — Excellent play which provides against Black's entrance of Kt— Kt5, after P — 94. 
Game 7.— Of course, if 9 ____ QKt— Kt5 ; 10 P— K5 wins a piece. 

Game 7.— An ill-judged move. The square of QB4 ought to have been reserved for the entrance of 
the Kt in order to weaken the adverse attack by B — Q3. The retreat of the Kt — Q2 at once was 
therefore, by far superior. 

Game 7. — A very weak move which creates a dangerous hole in Black's King's side. Either Kt — 
Kt3 or B — Q2 were much better. 

Game 7. — A much better defence was 18 ____ Kt— Kt2; for if 19 P— K6, 19 KtPxP ; 20 PxP ch., 
20 KxP ; 21 QXRP, 21 Q— 63, with a good game. 
Game 7. — Beautiful play and winning by force. 

Game 7. — Quite good enough, but the more simple initiation of the final assault by 2oPxKtP would 
have finished sooner, and also might have led to attractive brilliancies. For, supposing 20 PxKtP, 
20 PXP (if 20 ____ R— K2 ; 21 R— 67 21 RxR ; 22 PxRch., 22 KxP ; 23 Q—R$ ch., and wins. 
Or if 20. . .P— KR3; 21 BxP, 21 P— K4 ; 22 Q— R5, etc.) ; 21 R— 67, a-i KxR (or 21 .... B— 
— Kt2; 22 BXP and wins) ; 22 Q— R7 ch., 22 K— 63 (if 22 ____ B— Kt2 ; 23 R— B sq. ch., and 
wins) ; 23 It— B sq. ch , 23 K— K4 ; 24 6—64 ch., 24 K— 63 (or 24 ____ K— Qs ; 25 Kt— K2 
mate) ; 25 B — Kt3 dis. ch., and mates next move. 

MacConnell v. Zukertort. 

58. Game 8. — The same position may arise in the four Knights' game, the Petroff, in theGiuoco Piano, 
and King's Bishop's opening. A game between Seymour and Steinitz proceeded from this point 
thus: 4. . . .KtxP ; 5 KtxKt, 5 P— Q4 ; 6 B— Kt5, 6 PxKt; 7 KtxP, 7 Q-Q.4 5 8 BxKt ch., 8 
PXB; 9 Kt— Kt4, 9B— RS; 10 Kt— KS, 10 Q— Q5 ; 11 P— KB3, 11 B— 64; 12 PxP, 12 O— O; 
13 P — Q3, 13 P — KB4; 14 Q — 63, 14 QR — K sq. For continuation see game terminations. 

59. Game 8. — Superior to Kt — Oj, or O — O. 

GO. Game 8.— Much inferior to 9 P — Oj, which establishes Black's centre. If then 10 B— Kts, 10 

Q — Q2, followed by Q — 64, gives Black a splendid game for the ending. 

61. Game 8. — In another game between the same players occurred n KtxP,? n Q — K2; 12 P — KB4, 

12 B— Q2l; 13 O— O !, 13 KtXKt, and wins. 

62. Game 8. — An unsound sacrifice, but Black's position is already inferior. Another game between the 

same players proceeded; II Q — Oj, 12 R — K sq., 12 K — B2; 13 KtX? ch.!, 13 KtxKt; 14 

B— 64, 14 Kt— B6 ch.; 15 PxKt, 15 Q— Kt3 ch.; 16 K— R sq.+ 

63. Game 8. — Weak. Q — B2 at once was obviously far better. 

64. Game 8.— Much stronger was 18 P— QB4, 18 P— Q5 ; 19 RxKP ; 19 KtXR; 20 QxKt, 20 P— 
QKt3 (or 20. . . .R— K sq. ; 21 QxQP ch., 21 K— 63; 22 QxRP, 22 QxP ; 23 P— Kts, 23 Q— 
Kt4; 24 Q— Q4+) ; 21 Q— Kt5 ch., with an irresistible attack. 

65. Game 8.— Necessary in order to prevent R— Q$. If, for instance, 21 K — R sq., 21 R — Oj ; 22 R — 
KKt sq., 22 R— Kt3; 23 Q— R4, 23 B— KS; 24 R— Kt3, 24 QXP ch., and mates next move. 

66. Game 8. — Black's latter play with the exchange behind is exceedingly fine. He has now managed 
to obtain the winning position, and forces the gain of a piece by a very clever manoeuvre. 

67. Game 8. — An extraordinary fault of omission which costs a won game. After 27.... R — Q3 at 
once, White could hardly hold out long ; for if 28 R— Kt;, 28 Q— Kt3; or Q— 63 kept Black's 
game well defended, and White's RP was bound to fall immediately, whilst as regards the other 
Pawns on the Queen's side it was only a question of time. 

68. Game 8. — White takes advantage of the error in an ingenious manner, which, in turn, gives him a 
forced won game. 

69. Game 8.— This is now too late, but nothing else was of any avail. If 28 KtXR; 29 QxKt, 29 

R— B2; 30 P— Ry, 30 RXP; 31 Q— Kt8 ch. and wins. Or if 28 Kt— Q3; 29 R— Kt6 (threat- 
ening P— R7, etc.), 29. . . .Q— 63; 30 R— K8 ch., 30 K— 62; 31 RxKt, 31 R, or QxRi 32 P— 
R7, and wins. 

70. Game 8.— Promptly and cleverly deciding the game. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

The German Handbuch states that this opening is already mentioned in the Goet- 
tingen Manuscript and is also noticed by various later authorities like Lopez, Selenus, 
Lolli, Ponziani and others. In practice during our present century it was first favored by 
the Russian master Petroff after whom it is named, and it received its first extensive analy- 
sis in the French Chess journal La Palamede in 1842 at the hands of the Russian author 
Janisch. It is generally adopted for the purpose of avoiding the complications of other 
-variations in the King's Knight's opening like the Ruy Lopez, the Evans Gambit, the 
Scotch Gambit, etc. 

As regards its merits as a defence various authorities have expressed different opinions 
on the subject, but all agreed hitherto that 3 KtX? was White's best continuation though 
it was generally admitted that this line of attack only retained the advantage of the first 
move by proper play on the other side. We think however that the superior position at 
least can be proved for the first player by the attack 3 P — Q4 which has hitherto been 
almost ignored. 

Column i with the notes shows the most feasible line of defence and the variations 
springing therefrom leave the game considerably in favor of the attack. 

Column 2 is already given in Cook's Synopsis, and in consequence of Black's ques- 
tionable 5th move White gains a clear P without sustaining any disadvantage from having 
to move his King. It is however White's best plan to be satisfied with the P. For though 
he can win a piece by force by a deviation on the 8th move treated in Column 3, the 
counter-attack on the other side becomes so formidable as to make White's game unten- 
able. The variations we give in our notes are samples of brilliant tactics comprising even 
the early sacrifice of two pieces which is made possible in consequence of the bad position 
of White's King. 

Column 4 deals with a line of play which some authorities declared to lead to an 
even game on the assumption that White on the 6th move should proceed with QXP- 
But the modification which we suggest gives White an attack similar to that arising in the 
Horwitz and Frazer variations of the Scotch Gambit but as will be seen especially from 
our notes which are fair illustrations of hunting and even catching the Queen by means 
of attacks from minor pieces, White obtains a much stronger attack than in the above 
named variations of the Scotch and this is chiefly due to the loose position of the 
adverse KKt. 

Column 5 is an offshoot of the last tending to show that the device of retreating 
Q — Q sq. which may be adopted in a similar position in the Scotch Gambit leads to the 
loss of a piece in this instance. 

In Column 6 we also present a novel line of play which shows a decided superiority 
for the first player in a variation which most authorities held to produce an even game. 
Our alterations in the demonstration commences on White's 6 move for which generally 
O — O was recommended, but we think that our substitution will be found an improve- 
ment, as after the adoption of our proposition to play 6 B — Kt 5 ch., all the moves for 
the defence appear to us forced, whereas after 6 O — O Black might reply 6. . . .KKt — 63 
with good prospects of equality. 

In Col. 7 we present a variation which ends in brilliancies though at starting, Black 
has only adopted a resort which for a long time has been recommended for the defence 
against the usual line of attack. White's Kt, however, which has taken the KP on the 

DP:FENCE. 117 

51)1 move, is an inconvenient fixture (en passant, we may state that we did not consider 
it necessary to investigate the consequences of 5 PXP which is opposed to our general 
principles, and we may merely state that 5. ...KB — QB4 or Kt — B4 are equally good 
answers to produce an even game against that move), and we show that Black when 
trying to get rid of that Kt gives his opponent complicated sacrificing opportunities 
which we believe ought to be in favor of the first player. 

The next column is of a similar character, and instructive tactics will be found in 
Note 23, proving, we believe, the superiority for White who has sacrificed a piece. 

Columns 9 and 10 also apply the test to lines of play similar to those which are 
recommended for the defence by authorities against the attack 3 KtXP. But to the 
best of our judgment, the second player cannot equalize the position if White play 
properly. 

In Col. 1 1 we at last thread into the path of the old attack and we think that 
especially the new simple move 8. ... KKt — 63 ought to help Black to an even game. 

In Col. 1 2 we show the result if Black adopts the old line of play and we add some 
new moves with notes to the main variation which is already given by the various author- 
ities up to Black's nth move, but it should be specially noticed that whereas 6. . . .Kt — 
QB3 is generally marked as best in the books, we query it in the usual manner, and we 
may add that we consider its inferiority hardly questionable. It should be added to 

this variation that if 11 PXP; 12 BXBP, 12 O— O ; 13 R— Kt sq. gives White 

equally the superior game. 

In Table III we introduce in Col. 13 the move R — Ksq. on the 9th move, which we 
consider a means of attack well worth trying in various forms of this opening, though 
hitherto it has escaped the notice of theorists and practitioners. On White's icth move 
in this variation, we recommend the advance of P — 65 in order to confine Black's pieces. 
Though this is very rarely good in the opening and has never been mentioned yet, in 
any of the variations of this debut, we think our demonstration proves it to be sound in 
the present position. 

Col. 14 tends to prove that Black cannot fortify his Ktby 9. . . .P — 64 without fatally 
compromising his game. 

Col. 1 5 is a suggestion for the attack from a game in the German HandbucJi by 8 
R — K sq. in lieu of the more common 8 P — 64. We consider that \Vhite gets consid- 
erably the best of the position by this line of play without breaking the Pawns on the 
Q wing. 

Col. 1 6 is remarkable, as up to Black's nth move it occurred in a celebrated game 
played by correspondence between Pesth and Paris, and the play on both sides was 
accepted as the standard for this form of the opening. But our suggestion of 1 1. . . .Kt — 
B3 gives, in our opinion, the second player a very good game, albeit in some of the 
variations he comes out a P behind. 

In reviewing Col. 17, which in conjunction with the notes, rejects the old author- 
ized attack and suggests a new one, it should be added that if 8. . . .KB — QKt 5 ; 9 B — 
Q2,»9 BXB ; 10 QKtXB, 10 P — 64 ; 11 KtX? with the superior game. 

In Col. 1 8 we differ from authorities who recommend 7 B — KB4, which leads to an 
even game, whereas the process we suggest may be briefly dismissed as showing a su- 
periority for White who has a piece strongly fixed in the centre and his KBP advanced for 
the attack. 

In Table IV an inferior defence 3. . . .KtXP is dealt with, in Column 19, and some 
instructive niceties of play will be found in the notes thereto. The next columns of that 
table show that Black may adopt 3. . . .Q — K2 with impunity, and as no more than an 
even game can be opened against this little practised defence, this ought to be an addL 
tional reason for discarding the attack 3 KtXP as inefficient in comparison with 3 P — Q4. 

a 1 8 PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

In the Cochrane attack (4 KtXP), in Table V, we reverse the judgment of previous 
writers, for in Cols. 25 and 26 we advocate lines of play which have hitherto been 
condemned. In the latter column the movements of the King in the middle of the board 
form an interesting novel feature. 

In Col. 27 we think that we are giving proof by a new line of attack, 9 P — QB3 that 
the move 5. . . .B — K3, heading this column, does not release Black's King from all diffi- 
culties as quickly as has been supposed, on the assumption that White must play his 
Kt — QB3. Our modification gives White's Queen more scope for action on her own wing. 
With Col. 28 a line of play commences which is usually treated in the King's Bish- 
op's opening, but in order not to defer our readers to the second volume we have devoted 
at once attention to its chief features. Most authorities hold that 3 B — 64 in this opening 
is theoretically unsound, especially if followed up with 4 QKt — 63 after 3. . . .KtXP. 
But though we agree with this judgment we differ as regards the demonstrations. We 
lay most stress for the defence on the move P — QB3, which should be adopted as early 
as possible, not alone for the purpose of driving back White's KB, but also with the ob- 
ject of providing an exit for Black's King at QB2 in anticipation of his being driven to 
Queen's square. 

Columns 29 and 30 contain corrections of authorized lines of play but we thought 
the variations pointed out in the last note of that Table especially remarkable, as it 
contains a fine sacrifice of the Q which in practice would be likely to succeed, since even 
the analytical demonstration of the unsoundness of this sacrifice appears very difficult. 
In Columns 31 and 32 of Table VI, we endeavor to demonstrate that 7. . . .P — 63, 
and not 7. ... P — Q3 is Black's best move. The former has been neglected on account 
of a fanciful sort of attack supposed to be at White's disposal by the sacrifice of a Rook. 
We believe, however, that too much material is given up for an attack which simply rests 
on the preparatory coup de repose, 10 Q — K2. In our opinion the defence ought to win, 
though most of the book variations end in favor of the first player. We also disagree 
with the demonstrations hitherto attempted. For the defence 9. . . .Q — 64 which was 
held to be dangerous, appears to us the best and in fact the only one, whereas 9. . . .Q — 
Q3, which was supposed to give Black the best chance of prolonging the fight, is, in our 
opinion, altogether untenable. 

In Col. 33 the inferior defence 5. ... P — Q3 is taken up, and from Black's 8th move 
we investigate some new additions, comprising a feasible defence which cannot be easily 
met. 

Col. 34 is already well-known to theorists and retains the main idea of the attack 
against 5. . . .P — Q3. 

In the next two columns, the continuation of Q — K2, we again differ entirely from the 
old authorities in the conclusions we draw from the continuations arising after 4 Q — K2, 
in reply to 3. . . .KtXP. For by the new move 5. . . .B — K3, which we adopt for the de- 
fence, we think we prove a clear superiority for Black, whereas we maintain that the 
authorized move 5 KB — QB4 leads only to an even game by best play on White's part. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

119 

,i-K4 

9KKt-B3 

^ 

IP— K4 

^KKt— 83 

Qpronr! T)f»fpnrp 

PXP 

• 

<w^ Continuation 1KtXP jKKt-B3 rP~Q4 

KtxP 
RB-Q3 

up— Q3 *KtxP °P— Q4 

0 

Col II 

Second Defence 

B— Ka! 
g 

°QKt— 63 ? 

Col 16 

P-Q3 

.... Col 17 

Fifth Defence ... 

P— QB4 

.... Col 18 

Kt-Q3 

Note CC 

KKt— 63 
nKtXP 

ixote 55. 
- - Col 10 

"KtxP? 
nKtXP 

Cols 20 to 24. 

TCtvP 
Fifth Continuation --------- df^^f 

UQ— K2 
^KtxP? 

- - Cols. 25 to 27. 

Up_Q3 

Sixth Continuation ..... «B— B4? J*Kt~B3 

" 4 

rQPxKt 

"KtxP ^KtxKt 

" 0 

- - Cols 28 to 30. 

P— KB3 

- Cols "?"?. 'W. 

Seventh Continuation QB~ B4? 

P-Q3 
.Q-K2 

. Cols. 35, 36. 

'KtXP 

120 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

1 

1 

.P-K4 

nKKt— B3 0P~Q4! 

lp-K4 

2 

^ I/* T/"i 

3 

QKt— Kts? 6 

4 

0 

5 

D 

6 

«PXP 

jP— KS 

KtXP 
,,B-Q3 

_Q— K2 

1 F; 

Q— K2 
B-K2 

4P-Q4 
-KtXP 

Blvt /\ 1 

OB— Kt5 ch.? 

fiK-Q sq. 

^Kt— Kts 
0-0 

Op— QB4 
RB— Kts ch 

B— K2 
»QKt-B3 

OP-Q4 5 

7PXP in passing 

"KtxKP 
7R-K sq. 

°QKt— B3 12 
aKtxP 

"B— Q2 

yKtXB 

/Kt-K3 
pKtxKt 

2 ' P— KB4 
pPxP! 

'K-Qsq. 
.KtXP 

'KKtXP 
flR-K sq. 

'KtxKt 

n°"° 

"QPXKt 
0Q-Kt4+ 

3 °QXP 
4 nKtxP+ 

OO-Q 

QQ-B4ch. 7 

Op-Q3 9 
qP-KB4 

OQ-Q sq. 

QKB-QKt5 

°P— QR3 
QBxKt ch. 

14 

0 

0 

«K— R sq. 
inPXP D8 

"KKt— QB3 
1flB-KtS 

"B— K2 
1(1Kt-B5 

9QXB 
inP-KB3 

A«KtxPch. 
K-K2 

1UQ-B3 
QKt-B3 

1U0-0 
. . KtxB ch. 

lUKt-B3 
. . R— K sq. ch. 

AlQ— K2ch. 
4 nKxKt 

UB-Q2 10 
, 9Kt-B3 

**QxKt 

4 nBxKt 

UK— Qsq. 
1 «B-Kt5 

15 

i«Q— K8ch. 
.qK-Ktsq.orB3 

^"B— K3 

. QKt-K4 , 

A^QPXB 
qP-KB4 

i"B— K2 
nKt-B3+ 

16 

IUQXQB+ 

1«JQ-B4 
, .Q— K2+ Dll 

iUR-Qsq. 
..Q-K2+ 13 

Id 

Column 3. Move 10. PxQBP. 

BLACK. 

Column 4. Move I4. Q — K2. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCK. 121 

1. Col. i.— After 5 QXP, 5 P— 0.4; 6 PxP e. p., 6 KtXQl'; 7 QB-KKts, 7 P-K.B3; 8 QB-K I:,. 
8 Kt— 63; gQ — Q2, White has hardly any advantage. 

Col. i.— Or 7 ____ O -O; 8 QB— KB4, 8 P— Oj (if 8 ____ P— Q4; 9 O— O— O with the superior gam. , 
or it 8 ____ Kt— K.3; 9 KtxKt, 9 BPxKt; 10 B— Kt3 and we prefer white); 9 O— O— O, 9 P— OB3 
(or9....B-Q2; 10 KKt-Kts, ioKB-Kt4; n BxB, nQxBch.; 12 K— Kt sq., 12 BxKt; 13 
KtXB+); ic-K— Kt sq. threatening PxP followed by KKt— B3 with an excellent position. 

Col. I.— If 8. . . .BPxKt; 9 Q— R$ ch., 9 P-Kt3; 10 Q— Kt4, followed soon by P— KR4 with a 
fine attack. 

Col. i.— Obviously Black dare not castle on account of B— R6 and if 9 ____ P— KKt3 White will ob- 
tain an excellent attack by P— KR4. 

Col. 2. — 6 Kt — QB4 is altogether out of question on account of the reply B— Kt5. 

6. Col. 3. — A seductive move which wins a piece, but subjects White to an irresistible attack. 

7. Col. 3.— No better is 9 KtxKt, 9 PxKt; 10 Q— 64 ch., 10 K— R sq.; u PxP (or 11 QxB, 11 B— 

Kt5ch.; 12 B— K2,! i2BxBch.; I3KXB, 13^—63; 14 QxP, 14 Q— RS; 15 QXKt, 15 QxP 
ch. ; i6K— Q sq., 16 QxKtP; 17 R— K sq., 17 Q— Kt5ch.; 18 K— Q2, 18 R— 67 ch. ; and 

mates next move), 11 B— Kt$ ch. ; 12 B— K2 best (if I2P— 63, 12 PxP wins), 12 BxB 

ch. ; 13 KxB, 13 Q— R.5; with a winning attack. For if 14 PxKt queening, 14 Q— Kt5 ch. and mates- 
in a few moves; and if 14 QxB, 14 RxP ch.; 15 K— K sq. (if 15 K — Q sq., 15 Q— Kt5 ch., etc.), 
15 RxKtP dis. ch. ; 16 K — Q sq., 16 Q — Kt5 ch. and mates next move. 

8. Col. 3. -10 KtxKt leads to the same position as in the previous note, and if 10 Kt — 67 ch. the game 

mightproceed 10 RxKt; n QxR, n KtxPch.; 12 K— K2, 12 KtxR; 13 PXP, 13 Q— Q2; 

14 PxKt queening (if 14 QxQ, *4 KtXQ and should win), 14 QXQ; 15 Q— KB4 (obviously J 

best as Black threatens the fatal Q— 65 ch.); 15 B— Q2; 16 B— Q2, 16 Q— R4 ch. ; 17 Q— 63, 

17 R— K sq. ch.; 18 K— Q sq., 18 Kt— B7 ch.; 19 K— B sq., 19 BxB ch.; 20 KxB, 20 Q)— Kt4 
ch. ; and mates next move. 

9. Col. 4. — There are other defences which, however, do not improve Black's position. If, for instance, 

8 QKt— 63; 9 QKt— 63, 9 KtxKt; 10 QxKt, 10 Q— 64; 11 Q— K4, n P— Q3; 12 KB— QKt5, 

12 Q— Kt3 (or 12.... P— KB 4; 13 Q-R4ch., 13 B-K2; 14 QB— KKt5 and wins. Or if 12 

Kt— QB3; 13 B— K3, 13 Q— Kt5; 14 BxKt, and wins; for, if 14 PxB; 15 B— Kt5 ch. and 

mates next move, and if 14.. QxQ; 15 BxQ having won apiece); 13 B — K3, 13 Q — £4 (if 13 

P— QB4; 14 P— QKt4 with an irresistible attack); 14 QR— Q sq., 14 P— KB3 (or 14 P— 

QB3; 15 QxKt, 15 PxB; 16 B— Kt 6 ch., 16 QxB; 17 Q— K8 ch., 17 K— 62; 18 Kt— Q5 ch., 
and wins); 15 P— KB4, 15 KKt— Q2 (if 16. . . .P— QB3; 17 PxKt, 17 PxB; 18 PxBP, 18 PxP; 
19 B— Q4 and wins); 16 P— QKt4, 16 Q— R6; 17 QB— QB sq. and wins. 

10. Col. 4.— Clearly if n QxKt ch. ; White simply takes, and the Kt dare not retake on account of 

the impending mate by R — K8 ch. 

11. Col. 4. —Continued: 14 P— QR3; 15 B— Q3, 15 Kt— KtS; 16 Kt— Kt3, 16 Q— 64 ch. (or 16 

. ...Q— Kt5; 176— BS + ); 17 B— K3, 17 Q— QR4; 18 P— 65, 18 B— Q2 (if i8....B— Q4; 19 B 
— Kt5 ch. +); 19 Kt— Kt5, 19 B— K sq. ; 20 B— Q4+. 

12. Col. 5.— If 6. . . .P— QB4; 7 R— K sq., 7 QKt— 63; 8 KtXP, 8 KKtXKP; 9 KtxKt, 9 QPxKt; 

10 P— KB4, loKt— Kt3; u B— Q3, II B— K3; 12 P— 65 + . 

13. Col. 5.— Continued: 14. . . .Kt— Kt3: 15 QxQi 15 KtXQ; 16 RxKt, 16 R— Q8 ch.; 17 K— 62, 17 

B— Kt5 (or 17. . . .K--B sq.; 18 R— K sq. + ); 18 Kt— 63, 18 R— R8; 19?— QKt3+. 

14. Col. 6.— Black has to guard against the loss of a P threatened by PxP, and if 8 P— 65; 9 Q— 

K2 (threatening BX?) 9 Q— K2; 10 R— K sq. + . And if 8 PX?; 9 QXP, 9 KKt— 83 (or 

9 P— QR3; IOQXQP+); 10 R— K sq. ch., loB— K2; II Kt-B3, uP— OR.3; 12 B— R4, 12 

P— QKt4; 13 B— Kts, 13 Kt— Kt3, 14 B— Kt$+, for if 15. .. .O— O; 16 RxB and wins, or if 15 
Q— Q3; i6RxBch., 16 KxR; 17 QxQKt and wins. 

15. Col. 6.— Obviously if 11 B— K2; 12 PxP, and Black's QP will also be weak. 

16. Col. 6.— Continued: 13 P— R3 (or 13 P— 65; 14 R— KS + , or if 13 PxP; 14 QX?, 14 

P— R3; 15 RxB, 15 QXR;!— if 15 KxR: 16 KtX? ch., 16 K— B sq. ; 17 Q— 65 ch., 17 K— 

Ktsq.; 18 BxKt and wins— 1 6 KtX P, 16 Q— Q3; 17 BxKt ch., 17 PxB; 18 R—Q sq., threaten- 
ing Kt— Kt6+); 14 BxKt, 146x6; I5PXP, 15 BxKt; 16 PxB, 16 K— 62; 17 Q_Q4+. 

122 

P-K£ 
IP— K4 

8 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

0KKt-B3 

9 

"KKt— B3 

10 11 

KtXP 

12 

,B-Q3 

<)P-Q3 
.KKt— B3 

-KtxP 

-P— Q4 

.0-0 

OB— K3 

17 RQ~K2 2* 

OB— K2 Op_Q4 
0_0 «B-Q3 

QO-O 

yP-QB4 

t)Kt— Q3 25 
0-0 

DO_O OB— K2! 32 
yBxKt 29 rjO—O 

QKt— B3 ? 
0-0 

QKt^B3 

'B— K2 
18 RR— Ksq. 26 

'PXB 'O— O 
nQKt-B3 flP-B4 

'B— K2 34 

qPxKt 

UQ_B Sq. 27 
Q QQKt-B3 

Up— KB3 3O °KKt— KB3! 

QKt— B4 nPxP 33 

UQB— KKt5 

qKt-B3 

"BxKt 

1 nPxB 

19 OB_K3 "O— O 
nP-KB4 Q-R5 

"P— KB4 "KtxP 
f nB-B4+ 31 4 nKt— B3 

"KtxKt 

i n?xKt 

L U I » T/" « 

fcwtf— K3 

2OlUBxKt 1UP— KB4 28 
..BPXB ..Kt— K2+ 

ID lUB-K3 
Kt— KS— 

. .R— Ktsq. 

lip— KKt3 
* nQ- R6 

1 ips/p ? 11 
. «BXP ch. 

llp-QB4- 

HR— Ktsq. 35 
9R-Ksq. 

l^Kt-Q2 
^ qB— Kt5 

2ll"KxB 

l^B— K3 36 
4QQ-B2+ 37 

iOP_B3 
j iivBX"-tP- 

1 UK— Ktsq. 
f D4tE-Kts + T>23 

iu 

14 

2214 

BLACK. 
Column 7. Move 14. KBxKtP. 

BLACK. 

Column 8. Move I4 B— Kt5- 

£ mJiJL 

i 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 123 

Col. 7— We prefer this to 6 P— QB4, 6 P— QB3 ! (not 6. . . .B— Kt5 ch. ; 7 K— B sq.l and if now 7 
. . P— QB3 ; 8 PxP, and the Q dare not retake on account of KB— QB4, nor can Black resort to 

PXP on account of the reply Q— R4 ch. Likewise if Black play 7 O— O the reply 8 Q— Kt$ 

wins at least a P, for if then 8 PxP ; 9 QxP, wins a piece); 7 PxP (if 7 QKt— 83, 7 KtXKt ; 

8PxKt, 8 BxKt; 9 PxB, 9 PxP ; 10 BxBP, loQxQch.; with a good game), 7. . . .Q— R4 ch.; 

8 Kt— Q2, 8 PxP ; 9 BxKt, 9 BxKt ; even game. 

Col. 7.— Superior in our opinion to the exchange of Pawns which releases Black's QKt for a better 

post at 963. 

Col. 7.— If he wait till White has advanced P— KB4 it will be worse still, for then the opponent will 

evidently retake with the BP with the much superior game. And if 9 P— KB3 then 10 Q— RS, 

10 P— KR3; ii BXP, II PXKt; 12 QB— KKts, 12 Q— Ksq.; 13 B— R7 ch., 13 K— R sq.; 14 
B — Kt6 dis. ch. and mates next move. 

Col. 7.— 10 PXP; n BxP, ii QXQ; 12 RXQ also leaves White with much the superior 

position. 

Col. 7.— Obviously if 12 PxP ; 13 B— Kt$ and wins. 

Col. 7.— Might be continued 14 RPxB ; 15 QxPch., 15 K— Rsq. ; i6PxP, i6RxP(or 16 

KtxP ; 17 QR— K sq., 17 Q-K2 ; 18 R— K3, with a winning game); 17 Q— R$ ch., 17 K— Kt2 ; 
18 QR— K sq., 18 Q— K sq. ; 19 BxR ch., 19 KtxB (if 19. ... KxB ; 20 Q— R6 ch., 20 K— B2 ; 
21 R— K3 +); 20 Q — Kt5 ch., 20 K— R sq.; 21 R — K/j, with a winning game. 

Col. 8.— Continued 14 Q — Q4 ; 15 R — 64 (it is noteworthy that White may also obtain a draw 

at least by 15 B— B6, 15 Q— KS ;— if 15. .. .PxB ; 16 R— 64, 16 R— Q sq.; 17 Q— R6, 17 PxP ; 
18 R— R4, 18 P— 64 ; 19 Q— B6, and wins— 16 R— 63, 16 Q— Kt3 ; 17 R— Kt3, 17 QxQ ; 18 R 

X? ch., 18 K— R sq.; 19 RxP dis. ch. and draws at least), 15 Kt— Q2 ; 16 QR— B sq., 16 P— 

KB4!; 17 R— R4, 17 KtxP !; 18 PxKt, 18 QxP ; 19 Q— R7 ch., 19 K— B2 ; 20 R— R6 +. 

Col. 9.— After 6 O— O, 6 Kt— Q2 ; 7 P— KB4, 7 P— KB4 ; 8 Kt— Q2, 8 QKtxKKt ; 9 BPxKt, 

9 B— K2 ; 10 Q— R5 ch., 10 P— KKt3 ; ii Q— R$, ii Q— Q2 as played in a little match between 

Mackenzie and Blackburne. The game is even. 

Col. 9.— If 6. . . .P— KB4 ; 7 BxKt, 7 BPxB ; 8 Q— Kt5 ch. +. 

Col. 9.— Better than 8 P— KB4, 8 Q— B sq. ; 9 R— K sq., 9 P— KKt3 with a good game. 

Col. 9. — The move in the text enables Black to castle and is necessary, for if 8 .... O — O ; 9 KtxP,' 9 B 

XKt ; 10 QXB, 10 R— K sq.; ii QxQ + , and if 8 P— KB3 ; 9 Kt— Kt6 + . 

Col. 9.— If 10. . . .P— KKt3 ; ii KtxKtP, ii BPxKt ; 12 BxP, 12 R-B2 ; 13 BxR ch., 13 BxBi 

14 O— KS, 14 B— B sq. (If 14 Kt— 63; 15 Q— Kt3ch., 15 K— Rsq.; I6RXB, 16 KtxR; 17 

Q — K5 ch., and wins); 15 KtxP with more than an equivalent for the adverse two minor pieces 
against the R. 

Col. 10. — 7 R — K sq. or Q— K2 may also be played with advantage. 

Col. io.— Or 8. . . .P— KB4 ; 9 P— 63, 9 PxP ; 10 RXP + . 

Col. io. —White has the majority of Pawns on the King's side with the option ol opening the KB 

file by P — KB3 and he has also an entrance for his pieces at K5. All these advantages combined 

more than outweigh the adverse two Bishops (especially as Black's QB has little scope for action) and 

therefore constitute a superiority for White. 

Col. II. — As the QP is the usual mark of White's attack in this form of opening, it is better to keep 
Q file open in order to provide an additional defence and eventually a counter attack against the 
adverse QP which generally becomes isolated. 

Col. ii. — 9 P— 65 would not be good, for Black replies 9 P— QKt 3 and if 10 P— QKt4? io P — 

QR4; ii PxKtP, ii RPxP ; 12 PxP, 12 QX? with the superior game. 

Col. 12. — The same variation arises of course also by a transposition of Black's last two moves. 

35. Col. 12.— If 12 ____ P— QKt 3 the answer 13 R— K sq. is still stronger as it threatens PxP followed 
byB— K4. 

36. Col. 36. -Or 12. ... R-K sq.; 13 PxP, 13 QXP ; 14 QB-KB4, 14 Q— Q sq.; 15 P— Q5, 15 Kt 
— R4; i6KB-QKts 

37. ' Col. 12.— Continued 13. .. .P— KR3 ; 14 6-^65, 14 BxB ; 15 QxB, i$ PxP ; 16 P— Q$, }%?• 

R4 . I7 P— Q6, 17 PxP ; 18 RXB +. 

I24 

PETRO. 
«KKt— B3 «KtXP 

KF'S DEFENCE. 
.KKt— 63 

CP-04 oB— °3 

lp-K4 

13 

"KKt— B3 "P— Q3 

14 15 

16 

Op-Q4 

17 18 

60 

QKt— B3 i 
0-0 

> 

B-03 
0-0 

P— QB4 °Kt— Q3 55 
-0-0! 52 70-0 

'B— K2 

R-Ksq. 

'0— O 
np— B4 

'PXP 53 »B— K2 56 
nR-K sq- nKt~K5 

QR-Ksq.! 

HKt-Q3 

q qKt-B3 

UB-K3 
Q-B2 

Op— KB4 "O— 0 
QKt-K5 QP-KB4+ 

"Kt— B3 

mp"Bs 

38 OP— B4 OB-K3 
39 . «Kt— 63 . pKt— K2 

46 «p_KB4 
. «Q-Kt3 48 

"B— K3 
. nB-Kts ch. 

lUo-o 

4O 1 "KtxKt 43 1 "o— O 

. . PxKt , . Kt— B4 

lUPxp 
..gXKtP 

1UB-Q2 54 

Hfi-Kts 

A1PXP 44X1Q— Esq. 
40RXB ^ «P— B3 + 

47llKt— B3JD49 
. «BxKt 5O 

9P-KB3 + 

P-QR3 

41^"PXB *" 

. nKt— Kt5 

la 

. .P— Kt4 

V 13Q-Q2 

. . QKt-B3 

jrR-Ktsq. 

*'O— O— O 
42 . ,-BXB 

10 

RKt-K5+ D 

45 

Column I4. Move 16 Kt — K5. 

BLACK. 

i • 
A 

Column 1 6. Move 1 1 Kt— 

BLACK. 

1 

^ W$ A 

•*iBJt«i 

m 

m 

WHITE. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 125 

38. Col. 13.— If 9.... B— QKt 5; 10 BxKt, 10 BxR ; uPXP-f. 

39. Col. 13. — This is sound enough now, for Black has no time to break up the Pawns by P — QKt3. 

Compare next note. 

)40. Col. 13.— If 10. . . .P— QKt3 ; ir Q-R4, n B— Q2 ; 12 KB— QKt 5, 12 QKt— QKt sq.; 13 Kt-K 

5, I3BXB; 14 QxB ch., 14 K— B sq.; 15 QKt— 63 +. For if 15 PXP ; 16 Q— Kt 7, 16 QKt 

— Q2 ; 17 Kt— B6 and wins. 

41. Col. 13.— If 12 Kt— K sq., 13 Q— Kt3 wins a P with a safe position. 

42. Col. 13.— Might be continued 15 Kt— K sq.; 16 P— QR4, 16 P— 64 ; 17 P— Kt5, 17 PxP ; 18 

PXP, 1 8 Kt— Kt sq.; 19 Kt— K$ +. For after the exchange of Queens White will easily protect 
the QP by Kt— K2 if necessary, and obtain the superior position by R— R sq. 

Col. 14.— Or 10.... KB— QKt 5 ; u BxKt, u QPxB (11 . . . .BPxB ; 12 KKt— KKt5, 12 BxKt ; 
13 KtxB, 13 Q— K2 ; 14 PxB, 14 QxKt ; 15 Q— RS ch. +) ; 12 P— Q5, 12 PxKt ; 13 RxB ch., 
13 K— Q2 ; 14 QXP + . 

Col. 14.— If ii Q— Q2 ; 12 PxP, 12 BxP (if 12 QxP ; 13 P— 64 followed by 14 P— Q5 

wins) ; 13 Kt— K5, 13 KtxKt ; 14 RxKt and wins ; for if 14 O— O ; 15 Q— K2 wins a piece, 

as besides RxB, White also threatens RxQB, followed by KB— QB4 ;— or if 14 B— K3 ; 15 Q— 

K2, 15 K— B2 ; 16 RXB, followed by 17 KB— QB4 wins. 

Col. 14.— Continued : 16 Q— K sq.; 17 QR— Kt sq., 17 P— QKt 3 ; 18 Q— R3 + . 

46. Col. 15.— If 9. . . .Kt— 64 ; 10 KB— QKt5, 10 O— O ; u BxKt, 11 PxB ; 12 Kt— K5, 12 B— Q2 ; 

13 Kt— R4 + . 

47. Col. 15.— The best answer to 11 Kt— 64 is 12 RxB. 

48. Col. 16. — It is we believe quite safe for White here to confine the adverse pieces by 10 P — 65, fol- 

lowed immediately by P — QKt4. 

49. Col. 1 6. — The above moves occurred in the well known correspondence game between Paris and St. 

Petersburg. But at the present point the game proceeded : u P — 63; 12 BxKt (of course if 

12 QxR the reply 12 ... .Q— B2 confines White's Q which must be ultimately lost for two Rooks in 
a position favorable for Black), 12 PXB; 13 Kt— Kt$, 13 QB— KB4; 14 QKt — 63+. 

50. Col. 16.— Or 12 QxKt, 12 PxB; 13 Q— Kt5, 13 P— Q7; 14 QKtXP, 14 R— Kt sq.; 15 Q— Q3, 15 

KtxKt; 16 KtxKt, 16 B— Q4 with a strong attack. 

51. Col. 16.— Continued: 15 Q— R6, 15 Kt— Kt5; 16 Q— R4, 16 P— 63; 17 P— QR3 (if 17 KtxB, 17 
PXKt; 18 Kt— K6, 18 Q— K sq. + ), 17. .. .Kt— Q6; 18 KtxB, 18 PxKt; I9Q-B6 (if 19 Kt— K6, 
19 BxPch.; 20 KXB!, 20 Q— Q3 ch. + ), i9....BxP ch; 20 KxB, 20 KtxB; 21 Q— K6 ch., 
21 K— Rsq. + . 

52. Col. 17.— If 7 P— QB4,? 7 PxQP; 8 O— O (or 8 PxP, 8 B— Kt5 ch; 9 K— B sq., 9 QXP+), 8. ... 
KKt— 63; 9 KtxP, 9 PXP; 10 BxP, 10 B— K2 even game. 

53. Col. 17.— 7.... P— 65?; 8 BxKt, 8 PXB; 9 R— K sq., 9 P— 64; 10 Kt— KS, 10 B— K3; n Q— 
R5 ch., ii P— KKt3; 12 KtxP, 12 B— 62; 13 QxBP, 13 BxKt; 14 Q— KS ch.,+. 

54. Col. 17.— The piece is lost anyhow for if 10 K— K2; ii RxKt and wins. 

55. Col. 18. — The same line of play as here proposed may also be adopted for 6. . . .KKt — 63. 

56. Col. 18.— 7 B— Kt5 is of no use on account of 8 Q — K sq. ch. followed by Kt— K5. And if 

7. . . .B— 64; 8 BXB, 8 KtxB; 9 Q— K2 ch., 9 B— K2; 10 Q— Kt5 ch. + . 

126 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

.P-K4 

9KKt-B3 

nKtXP 

IP— K4 

19 20 

30 

"KKt— B3 

21 22 

i ip~Q4 

0 

23 24 

KtxP? "Q— K2 
.Q— K2 .KKt— B3 

4g_ K2 ^KtxP ! 63 
cQxKt CB— K2 

*QXP ch. ^P -Q3 
-B— K2 _KKt-B3 

Up_Q3 UQ — Q Sq. 

p — Q4 O — O 

3fi— 64 ^QXP ch. 
D0-0 DB— K2 

^KtxP! 67 
B-K3? B-K2 

«P— KB3 «B— K2 
I7P-KB4 57 ^R—Ksq.- 

DO— O DB— 64 
7P-Q4 nP-B3- 65 

OKt-Kts "P-Q4 

7Q-Q2 7o-o 

'Kt-Q2 '0—0— 
QKt-B3 

'B-Kt3 'Q— By— 

'KtxB /Q— Qsq. 
fiPXKt oKt~K5- 

"BPxKt 58 
qKt-Q5 59 

QQB-KKt5 

Op_Q4 0B_K2— 

«Kt-B3 

nB— Kt5ch.6O 

OP PJo 
r iij 

4 nQ-Q2+ D 

JQ-K3 

^Ktch.6 

lu 

l"p— KB4+ 66 

nBxP ch. 

QxPch. 

Q^ch,+ 

D62 

Column 19. Move 14 Q — Q5 ch. 

BLACK. 

i 

Column 21. Move 10 Q — Q2. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 127 

Col. 19.— Quite as good at least is 7 QKt— 83, with the probable continuation: 7 QPxKt; 8 Kt— 

Q5> 8Q— Q3; 9 PxP, 9 PX?; loQB— KB4, loP— 63; u O— O— O (n Kt— 63 or Kt— KS also gives 
White the advantage), n. . . .PxKt; I2RXP, 12 Q— KKt3; 13 RxP ch., 13 K— Q sq.; 14 R— Q$ 
ch, 14 B— Q2; 15 Q— KS, 15 Q— QKt3; 1 6 KB— QKts, 16 K— B sq. (if 16. . . .Kt— 63; 17 Q— 
K6, etc.), 17 KR— Q sq. and wins. 

Col. 19.— 8....QPxKt; 9 Kt— Q5, 9 Q— Q3; 10 PxP, 10 PxP; " PXP, " Q— 63 (or n.... 
KtxP?; II QB— KB4+ or II....QXP; i2KtxPch.+); 12 KB— QKts +. 

Col. 19. — We consider this better than 9 BPxP, 9 PXP which in some contingencies gives Black 
more freedom for his KB. 

Col. 19.— Equally good is 10 KtxQ, 10 KtxQ; " Kt— Qs, u K— Q sq.; 12 B— Q3, 12 P— 63; i$ 
BxKt, 13 PxKt; 14 BXQP, H PXQP; 15 B— Q2 followed by O— O— O which will soon win a P 
with a fine position. 

Col. 19.— If IO....K— Qsq.; u KtXKt, II PxKt; I2BPXP, 12 BPxP(or 12. . . .QPxP; 13 PXP, 
13 PXP;— if I3....QXP; I4QXQ, H^XQ; *5 B— Kt 5 ch., 15 B— K2; 16 O— O— O ch. and 
wins— 14 B— Q2. + ); 13 O— O, 13 B— Kt2; 14 P— KR4, 14?— KR3; 15 Q— Kt6+. 

Col. . 19 — This check is of importance before taking the R, and its object is to drive the adverse 
K— Kt2 where he blocks his own R which otherwise would help to obtain a strong counter attack. 
If, for instance, 14 QxR at once, then 14. . . .QB— Kt2; 15 QxP, 15 PXQP dis. ch. ; 16 K— 62, 
1 6 Q— KS ; 17 KR— Kt sq., 17 KR— Kt sq. ; etc. Whereas, after the move we propose, Blacks best 

answer is clearly 14 K— Kt2; whereupon 15 QXR is quite safe, for if 15 B— Kt2; 16 Q 

XP, 16 PXQP ch.; 17 K— B2, 17 Q— KS; 18 KR— Ktsq., iSQxQBPch.; 19 K— K sq, 19 Q 
— KS ch. ; 20 K— Q sq. + . 

Col. 20. — This move in conjunction with Blacks next fully equalizes the game. 

Col. 21.— We consider this better than 8 P— QB4, to which Black's best reply is 8 P— Q3- 

65. Col. 22. — Keeping the centre compact, whereas 7 P — 64 would loosen it in a manner that might cause 

trouble in the ending. 

66. Col. 23.— White cannot get out of his weak centre P, and the two Bishops will also give Black the 
superior game after he develops his pieces. 

Col. 24.— Afters. . . .QxPch.;6 B— K3 !, 6Kt— Kts; ;Q— Q2, 7KtxB;8-PxKtWhitehasthe better 
game, for Black cannot now play for stopping the centre P as in the previous column. If, for in- 
stance, 8. .. .P— KB4; 9Kt— B3, 9 Q— K2; 10 Kt— Qs, 10 Q-Q sq.; 11 P— K*, 11 PxP; 12 
Q—K3, 12 B— 64; 13 Kt— B2 with the better game, for if 13. .. .P— 63; 14 KtxP, 14 PxKt; 15 
KtxQP double ch., 15 K— Q2; 16 KtxB, 16 B— Kts ch5 "7 K— Q sq., 17 R— K sq.; 18 B— 
Kts ch- + - 

128 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

25 

,KtxI' 
rfp/:< ): 

-P-K4. 
IP— K4 

26 

9KKt-B3 
fl— 

27 

-B3 

28 29 

,B— B4? 75 

30 

KtxP? 

Kt-B3 

.B— B4 ch. 

B-Kt3 

OB -0.3 68 
,0— O «O— R<? ch. 

r -QPXKt 

OB— K3? Op_KB3! 76 

RBXB ch. C0-0 77 

UKvR D( 

KXB 

'Q— K2 78 

7^:1^ nv: 

' R— B sq. ' K- 

~K sq. 

1<3 1) /K— B2 

!BP-Q4 

°K-Kt sq. 

'P— B3 »P— 83 

0Q-R5 ch. flQB-KKt5 
— B3 OB— K2 71 OK— Q Sq. °P_Q3 8O 

tO— O 70 QO— O 
0 

,R— K sq. ch. 

1— R sq. °K— Q3 °9Kt— Q2 OP— Q4 

. nQ— KS ch. . nQ— Kt3 ch. . ftQR— (; 

72 gB-K3 79 nB- 

! 81 UB— K3? 

BXB 

73 

10 

Q--Q4 

13 

Kt-Q2+ 74 

Kt-lB^ 
AlQ— B2 

QXB 
Kt-Q4 

g— 62 

Q-Kt4 

t— R3 

K.t— B2 
P-KB4 

14p_KKt3 
t rKt-B3 

'P -KB4 1 
.Q-R3+ 8S 

Column 26. Move 7. . . .K — K3 

BLACK. 

Column 30. Move 15 P— KB4. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

1'KTknl'FS 1>I I I - 129 

18. Col. 25. — We prefer this to 6 Q— K sq. ch. recommended by some authorities, for after 7 K— B sq, 

7 B— Qj; 8 P— Q4, followed by B— Kt 3 and P — QB4, Black will have difficulty to get his K into 
safety, and his Q is also not well placed. „ 

19. Col. 25.— White's surplus of three Pawns is divided on the two wings, and his five Pawns to three on 

the Queen's side are weakened by the double Pawn. 

N>. Col. 26.— Or 8 Q— K.2, 8 K— 63; 9 P— Q3, 9 Kt— 64; 10 Q— 63 ch., 10 K— K3+. 

l. Col. 27. — Black evidently cannot venture on 8 KtxP ; on account of 9 Q— R5 ch., followed accord- 
ingly by Q—QS ch- or R — K scl- 

Col. 27. — Stronger than the authorized QKt — 63. White's aim is either to drive the adverse King 
back to the last row before Black's KR can get into play, or else to get a third P, which, considering 
that White has all his Pawns on the board, must become very formidable in the end. 

. Col. 27.— If 10 K— B sq. ; II Kt— Q2, followed by P— KB4 with a strong attack. 

. Col. 27.— Continuation : 13 R— Ksq. (or 13 P— 63; 14 P— KB4, 14 Kt— KS; 15 P— 65, 15 

Kt — B2; 16 Kt — K4 with an excellent attack) ; 14?— 64, 14 Kt— KS; 15 P— 65, 15 Kt— B sq. (if 
I5 . . . .Kt— Kt4 ; 16 P— KR4 and wins); 16 Kt— K4, 16 K— Kt sq.; 17 P— B6, 17 PxP; 18 
and wins. 

. Col. 28. — The same position may arise by a transposition of moves in the KB opening after I P — K4, 
i P— K4; 2 B— 64, 2 KKt— 63; 3 KKt— 63. 

F6. Col. 28. — The only move to maintain the P gained, and though White obtains apparently a strong 

attack Black by best defence ought to be able to get out with advantage in position and material. 

» 

, Col. 28. — 6 KtxP would be bad on account of the rejoinder 6. . . .Q — K2. But of course if Black 
reply 6 PXKt at once White would win by 7 Q — R5 ch. 

. Col. 28.— Better than 6. . . .P— Oj; 7 Kt— R4, 7 Q— K2; 8 Q— R5 ch., 8 K— Q sq.; 9 P— 64, 9 
" Kt— 63 ; 10 B— K3 with a strong attack. 

. Col. 28.— If 9 Kt— Kt6, 9 Q— K sq. ; 10 B— Q3, 10 B— K2 and wins. 

. Col. 29. — Clearly necessary as White threatens 

Col. 29. — By- this move Black avoids all the complications suggested in our next column and prepares 
for the strong advance of P — Q4 which will give him the superior position as White's KB will be 
reduced to inactivity. 

12. Col. 30.— Continued: 16. . . .P— KS; 17 Kt— Kt5, 17 Q— BQ4; 18 R— Q4 followed by KtX-KP. It 
is however noteworthy that White instead of retreating the Q given in our main column might at- 
tempt to sacrifice her and we believe there is only one line of play to save Black's game. e. g. 16 
PXP, 16 PxQ; 17 PXP dis. ch., and now it 17. . . .Q-K3; 18 P— Q 7 ch., 18 K— 62; 19 Kt— 

Kt5 ch. and wins. Or if 17 Kt— K3, 18 Kt— KS, 18 BxP; ! 19 KtxQ, 19 6—64 ch; 20 K— 

R, sq., 2oKxKt; 21 R— Q7 ch. and wins. But after 17 B— K2; 18 BxB (or 18 PxB, iS 

Kt— Q4; etc.), 18 Kt— K3; 19 Kt— Kt5, 19 Q— 64; 2oKtXKt, 20 K— Q2; Black ought to win. 

130 

,P-K4 
IP— K4 

31 

Kt-B3 

32 

rQPxKt 
Op— KB3 

nO-Q 
OQ-K2 

nR-K sq. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

9KKt-B3 
"KKt— Bi 

33 

'P-Q3 

34 

"KtxP 

35 

,Q— K2 96 
•KtxP 

36 

'B— K3! OKB— gB4? 

,B-Kt3 97 0P-Q3 

88 

9 

ch. 

P_B3 

nQB-KKts 

OQ_Q3? b 

Q-B4! 

K-Q sq. 

o-o 

7Q-Kt5 ch. 7QxKt 

/P DR-> /Q Q 

P— QB3 
QXKtP 

Kt-Q2 89 OQXKt 
KtxKt .R— Ksq 

nQxBP 

OC^T 

n^-^ >H- nR-B sq- 

90 OO^B^ 94 aQB-KR6 

Q-K2 
P-Q4! 10 

Kt-K5 

R— K8 ch. 

'B— K2 

R-Q ^. 

•Q— B2 

,KtXP 84 . ?Kt— Kt6 
~1^K 

R-Ksq. 

. nix— JLVO vn. t nVA^J 
9llUK-g2 ~1UK-Qsq. 

-4Q-Kt4ch. 4JB~B4 

QXKBP ch. . nQxB 

92 UK— B3 

,0B-Q5ch. D 

. nQ-R5 ch. 
lup— Kt3 

. ,KtxKtP 

— Q2 LUV— 1 

-Ksq. 86<0Kt- 

93 

Q-K4ch. 

QXBch. 

15i= 

ch. 

Q-K8 

Q2 

. pR— K sq.+ xy . QV— 
ID «RiDoII 

13B-Ktsq. 10K— B4 

UQ — Kt4sq.+ B — K3 ch. 
41 

15 

-Kt4 

P— R4ch.+ 
95 

85i"Q-Q2+ 87 
Column 31. Move 16 R — Ksq. 

BLACK. 

Column 34. Move 12 B— Q5 ch. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 131 

83. Col. 31. — The attack is not lasting enough for such a heavy sacrifice. 

84. Col. 31.— Much stronger than 12 BxB, 12 P— Q4; 13 KtXP, 13 B— K3; 14 Kt— Kt6, 14 PxKt; 15 
QXB, 15 QxB; etc. 

85. Col. 31.— If 16. . . .BXB; 17 Q-K8 ch., 17 K— Q3; 18 Q— KS ch., and wins theQ, for if 18. . . . 

K — Q2; 19 Q — K6 ch., and mates next move. 

86. Col. 32.— Obviously White's best chance of continuing the attack. If 13 KtXR, 13 QxB and wins. 

87. Col. 32.— Continued : 17 B— 64 ch., 17 K— Kt3; 18 B— K3 ch., 18 8—64 and wins. 

Col. 33.— Obviously Black dare not capture the Kt on account of 7 BX? ch., 7K— K2; 
Col. 33. — A new and feasible defence, but Black's game is already too much compromised. 
Col. 33.— Or 9 BxKt; 10 Q— RS, 10 P— KR3; 11 B— Q2. 

Col. 33. — If 10. . . .Q — K/3 or K sq., White answers with still greater force n R — Ksq.,and obviously 
if 10 Q— K2 or — 63 then 11 B— Kt5 and wins. 

92. Col. 33.— If II.. . .B— K2; 12 P— KKt4, 12 Q— B sq. (or 13. .. .Q— K3?; 14 Kt— B6 ch., or if 13 

. . . .Q— 63 ?; 14 B— Kt5+); 13 Q— Q5 + - 

93. Col. 33. — Obviously White threatens to win at once by Kt — Q4. 

94. Col. 34.— Or 9 B— Kt5; 10 RXQ, 10 BxQ; n B— Kt$ ch., 11 K— B sq.; 12 RxB and Black 

dare not capture the R on account of the impending mate by R — Q8 (Gossip's Manual}. 

95. • Col. 34. — White mates in two moves. This variation is given by Staunton. 

96. Col. 35.— If 4 KtXP, 4 P-Q4; 5 B-Kt3, 5 Q— Kt4; 6 O-O, 6 QxKt; 7 R— K sq., 7 KB— QB4; 
8 Q— K.2, 8 QB— KKts, 9 QXB, 9 BxP ch.; 10 K— B sq., 10 BxR; " Q— B8 ch., u K— K2; 12 
QXR, 12 Kt— Kt 6 ch.; 13 PxKt, 13 BxP+.— (German Handbuch}. 

97. Col. 35.— Or 6 P— Q3, 6 KtXP; 7 B— Kt 5 ch.?, 7 P— 63; 8 KxKt, 8 Q— Kt3 ch.-f . 

98. Col. 35.— Black threatens R— KB sq., followed by RX? with an irresistible attack. 

99. Col. 36.— If 6. . . .BXP ch.; 7 K— B sq.!, 7 B— Kts; 8 B— Kt3., 8Q— K2; 9 BxP, 9 QXKt; 10 
QxKt.— 

100. Col. 36.— If 9 P— KB4, 9 Kt— 63; 10 Q— K4, 10 R— K sq.; u K— Q sq., u KtxKt (Stronger 
than u Q— R5 to which White may well reply 12 P— QB3,— not 12 QKt— Q2 on account of 
I2. . . .B— Kt5 ch.; 13 QKt— 63, 13 Q— 67 etc.— and after 12. . . .B— Kt5 ch. ; 13 K— 62, 13 Q— 67 
ch. ; 14 Kt— Q2, Black threatens KtxKt and retains his P with a good game); 12 PxKt, 12 

13 QXQ (best for Black threatens Q—R4ch.); 146— Kt5 ch.+. 

132 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

Gamel. 

Dufresne. 

POTTER 
MASON. 

.P— K4 

Game 2. 

Staunton and Wor- 
mald. 

MACKENZIE 
HAMMOND. 

QPXP 11 

Game 3. 

Dufresne. 

SCHIFFERS 

TSCHIGORIN. 
ALAPIN 

PETROFFSKY. 

Game 4. 

Lmventha l-Morph} 
Games. 

MORPHY 
LIGHT EN 11 EII 

nB-B4 

lp-K4 
KKt-B3 

"KKt— 63 

.KKt— KB3 

1 "KtxP 
V^Kt-B3 

pP-^U 

JrBxP4 2J 

°P-Q4 
gB-Q3 

j "KKt— KB3 

OKt— B3 

7o-o 

+%PZ$3 

'O— O 
nP~B4 

'B— K2 
gP-B4 

A ' 0— 0 2i 
LpP-KR3 2^ 

°P-QB3 1 
«Q— B2 

QR-K sq. 

Ar°P— KR3 2J 

OKt-Bs 

"PXP 

"KKt— 63 

^ OKt— B3 
T.nQ — Q2 2< 

10p_KR3 2 
B— K3 

18PXK^ 

IfKtxP 
HKt^B3 

-^10QKt-QR42! 

oKBxBP 

**B— KKts 12 
, 9QR-Kt sq. 

11 0-0 
A nB-K4 

f .9RPxKt 

1"QB— KKt5 
, -0. Kt— Q2 

A"Q— B2 13 
4 qP— KR3 14 

A" KB— Kts 18 

KtxKt 

f IflB— Q2 21 
^r.qKR— KKtJj 

luQKt— Q2 3 
..QBxRP 4 

X 0 T> TJ A T R 

j.BxPch.! 

UQXB 

fl"Kt— R2 2J 
Kt-K4 

1'fixKl 5 

* pKtxB 

^KXB 

. pKt — Kt5 ch. 

14p_KB4 D 
4 rB — Kt5 19 

i^K— Rsq. 

, pQ— Kt6 ch. 

lbK-Kt3 
.gP-KKt4 

1«Q — Q3 2O 

-^ 1"P-KR4 3< 
-| , pKt— R4 

, yQxRp'di. 

40RXP! D 16 

17BXKt 

1 10P KKts 

J, . _Q_ K2 

1 ' K— Kt sq. 
QR-Ksq. 6 

*'QXR 

1/Q_Q2 21 

?«a?r5?4 3: 

lOQKt— Kts 

luR_Rsq. 

1 nQ-Q-3 ch. 

iqKt-K5 

•4 lOpxP 
/ iqB-Q4ch. 

te-Ktf ? 

I \t \r T> _ 
IV -L*3 

1UQXP 
onKtXB 

Lf lOK-Ktsq. 
+ 9-Kt-B5 3i 

R^-K53! D8 

20B_-Kt3 17 
9 . Kt— R; ch. 

«URXB 
o|Q-B3 

•f ^«R— Ksq. 
4- n . Kt— R6 ch. 

ulBxR 9 
99?XB 

Q«)P— Kt5 mate 

99Kt"^3 

^alK B sq. 

99o-o-o 

«flCwR4 

B-B7ch. 

2fiR_Osq. 

K— Esq. 

— ""BxKt 3: 

OOK—Rsq. 

ft .RXKt & wins 
1 j « 

Z3Q-Q6ch. 

- 01 P-K52 

Z* 10 

24K-KSq. 

rBxB 

P-QKt3 

R_Q7 D3i 

nrrK-Q^ 

-^ZbQ_Kt2 3< 
-n?Q-B4 

4 / R— 65 
onP-B3 

^^l/R_K2 

60p_B5 
R-OBsq. 

R-K sq. ch 

^ ^ and wins 

""and wins. 3' 

PETR( >KI-'S DEFENCE. 133 

Potter v. Mason. 

1. ( lame I. — 8. . . .B — Kj is the usual move here. See continuation in Col. 16. 

2. (lame i.— We prefer 10 PxP; for after u BxP ch., u K— R sq. Black would have the best 

of the game as he threatens P — KKt3 and will be able to defend the QBP which ought to give him 
the superiority in the end while White's King's side attack presents no danger if well taken care of. 

3. (lame I. — An error of which the opponent takes advantage in a very ingenious manner. 

4. Game i.— Sound and brilliant. 

5. Game i. — It was not wise to effect this exchange for in certain eventualities he had the prospect of 
bringing this B to KB4 or Kt3 via E.4, and at any rate, the retention of this B would have made 
White's attack more difficult. 

6. Game i. — An important move for the attack and one of great depth and insight into the game. 

7. Game I. — White's fine i8th move had provided against any attempt at releasing himself by 19. . . .R 

— K sq., at this juncture, for then would follow 20 RxR ch., 20 KtXR; 21 B-- R; ch., 21 K— R 
sq. ; 22 B— Kt dis. ch. and maVes in two more moves. 

8. Game I. — An exceedingly beautiful coup which wins by force. 

9. Game I. — It was irrelevant what he did for he could not have saved the game. If for instance 20 

KtXR; 21 PxKt, 21 BxKP ch.; 22 K— R sq., 22 BxKt; 23 QxB ch., 23 K— R sq.; 24 RX 

Kt and wins. Of course, if 20 BxKt: 21 R— Kt3 and wins. 

,0. Game I.— For if after 24 Q— K8 ch. ; 25 R— B sq., 25 QXP ch.; 26 K— R sq. Black must give 

up the Q for Kt and his game is then hopeless. 

Mackenzie v. Hammond. 

11. Game 2. — This early exchange of Pawns has the disadvantage that it gives Black an open QB file 
and allows his QKt to occupy a better post at QB3 than he could otherwise obtain. White's QBP 
is also weaker than Black's QP. 

Game 2. — QKt — 63 was preferable. 

Game 2. — An error that exposes him to the loss of a P and to an irresistible attack. 

Game 2. — Move 13 BxP ch. at once was much stronger and would have won a P, for if 13. . . .KxB; 
14 Kt— KKts ch., 14 K— Kt3; 15 QxB, 15 BxP ch. ? ; 16 K— Rsq., 16 P— KB4; 17 Q— R3, 17 
Kt— Q2; 18 QXB, 18 R— R sq.; 19 Kt— R3 and wins. 

15. Game 2. — Of course Black ought to have retreated his B — Q2. 

16. Game 2. — Excellent play. White holds his grip on Black's position with firm hand. 

17. Game 2. — Overlooking the very neat finish but his game was gone. 

Schiffers and Tschigorin v. Alapin and Petroffsky. 

t. Game 3. — The White allies rely too much on the apparent strength of their I4th move but as will be 
seen, their calculations are overreached by a further deep combination of their opponents. 

>. Game 3.— The only correct move. If 15 B— 62, 15 BxKt; 16 PxB, 16 KtXP; 17 Q— Q sq., 17 
KtxB and wins (Dufresne). 

D. Game 3.— 15 Q— Q2; 16 B— 62, 16 BxKt; 17 PxB, 17 KtxP; 18 Q— Q sq., and Black dare 

not capture either Kt or B. (Dufresne). 

i 21. Game 3.--Of course if QXB the reply B — Q5 wins. The rest is easy. 

(Continued on page 

134 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

GAME No. I. 

Move 21. R — K3. 

BLACK — MASON. 

GAME No. 2. 

Move 17. RxP. 

BLACK — HAMMOND. 

I 

WHITE — POTTER. 

WHITE— MACKENZIE. 

GAME No. 3. 

Move 14 P— KB4. 

BLACK — ALAPIN AND PETROFFSKY. 

GAME No. 4. 

Move 26. R— Q7. 

BLACK— LIGHTEN HEIN. 

I 

A; i* 

li 

WHITE — SCHIFFERS AND TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE— MORPHY. 

1'KTkoKF-S DI-FKNCE. 135 

(Continued from page fjjj 

Morphy v. Lichtenhein. 

Game 4.— A favorite countersacrifice and invention of Mr. Lichtenhein, but certainly inferior to Kt 
XKt. 

Game 4. — Not good on general principles. 

( ..urn- 4. — Quite justifiable, as White is not in need of castling on the King's side and may safely 
prepare an attack on that wing. 

Game 4. — This is quite as compromising as unnecessary. This very P furnishes a mark for the hostile 
attack. 

Game 4. — We consider 10 P— KKt4 at once stronger. A likely continuation was : 10 Kt — R2 

(if 10 Kt— QR4; 11 P— KtS, 11 PxP; 12 KtxP with a strong attack); n P— Kt5, u PxP (this 

is best now, for White would otherwise advance P— Kt6); 12 KR— Kt sq., 12 B— K2; 13 Kt— Q5 
with an excellent game. 

Game 4. — Well played. After getting rid of the adverse KB, he can guard himself against the break- 
ing in of the adversary on the King's side. 

Game 4. — It would have been better to retreat Kt — R2 at once. 

Game 4. — The delay in advancing P — Kt5 was unnecessary and even disadvantageous, for he will 
have forced an opening on the KKt file \vhich would have been sure to be more useful for the attack 
than the plan adopted anon. 

Game 4. — It should be noticed that unless Black had previously exchanged the adverse KB or moved 
his King, White could now proceed with P — Kt6 effectively. 

Game 4.- — The sacrifice of the P is hazardous and in fact unsound ; but it was very difficult for the 
opponent to steer clear of all difficulties afterward. 

Game 4. -r-Continued with ingenious energy and spirit. Obviously if Black take the Kt the reply 
Kt— B6 ch. or P — Kt6 wins. 

Game 4. — An error of judgment which drifts him into further difficulties. The right move which 
would have won was 22 KtXP, for if 23 RxKt, 23 QxR; etc., or if 23 B— B6, 23 RxKt and 

wins. 

Game 4. — Overlooking the adversary's beautiful scheme and its disastrous result for his game. B 
— 64 would have left him with a safe game and a P ahead. 

Game 4. — Very finely played and absolutely decisive. 

Game 4.— After 26 KtX?; 27 RxKt, 27 Q— 63; 28 QxP, 28 P— B6; the continuation of 29 R 

XP would lead to a draw as shown by Lowenthal. But White can win by force by 29 R — 65, for if 
29....R— K8ch.; 30 K— Q2, 3oQxR!;3i QXQ, 31 PXQ; 32 RX? ch, 32 K— K sq.; 33 KxR 
and wins. 

Game 4. — White's terminating moves are marked by masterly vigor and accuracy. 

136 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

P— K4 

?KKt-B3 
"KKt— B3 

Game 5. 

Game 6. 

Game 7. Game 8. 

TUDD, 

SELLMANN & 
WARE. 

DELMAR, 

MOEHLE & 

GRUNDY. 

P-Q3 
KKt— KB3 

P-Q4 

5 

«KKt-KB3 38 

nO-0 

'B 

8 

•-Q4 
B-Q3 

K2 
P— B4 

39 

PXP 

'O— O 
,Kt-B3 

B-KL__ 
lop— KR3 41 
. nQR-B sq. 
i"P-QR3 42 
j jP-QR3_43 

Ug~~ 

Kt— K2 

QB— KB4 

44 Game 5— Cont'd. 

Kt— K5 
-KtXKt 

30 

BXB 

QXP 

t— Q4 

Leipziger Schach- 
zeitung, 1860. 

ANDERSSEN 
KOLISCH. 

Q— K2 
KKt— KE3 

QxPch. 52 

B— QB4 
Q-0 

'B-Kt3 
0P-B4 

Lmventhal, 

UP— B3 
gKt-B3 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 

15 
16 

*' 

Q— K2 
B— KKt5 

P-KR3 
B— R4 

P— KKt4 
B— Kt3 53 

P-Q4 
Kt— KS 

QKt— Q2 
PXP 

KKtxP 
QKtxKKt 

PxKt 
P— KB4 

PXP 

KtxKt 54 

PXB 

Kt— B6ch.55 
K— Kt2 

Game 6— Cont'd. 

°xR 

30 

BxPch. 

u*B— B6 — 
Q9B-R7ch.48 
,K— R2 0^ 

10R— KRsq. 
B-KR^_ 

^UB-K3 

BXB 

QxBch. 
•K— Q sq. 
,0— Kt8 ch. 

_ 

_Q sq. 

KXB 

— 62 

Dufresnc, 

MORPHY 

(playing 8 games 

simultaneously 

blindfold) AMATEUR 

POTIER. KIESERITZKY. 

KtxP 

"KtxP 

.QKt-B3 

1] 

EKKt— B3 64 

"KtxP? 

4^K2 

DB-Kt3 
°B-K2 

7P-Q4 

'P— B3 
nO-0 
0 

;Q— K2 

c°xKt 

bp^Qr 

DP-Q4 

65 P— KB3 

P-KB4 

7 

/ 

QKt— O2 
P-B4 

Kt— Q2 
|Kt-QB3 

'BPxKt 

Kt-Kt3 

II) 

1U 

Kt-B3 
KtxKt ch. 

66A°PxKt 

B— Kt5 ch. 

Q— B2 
B-KB4 

f Q 
*• 

P— B3 
BXP ch. 

iflB— Q3 1UPXB 

. 0QR-K sq. , nQXBP ch. 
lOK-Bsq. "1^K=B2— 
uQ-Kt3 JJQXR *i 

^P— R5 67lftQB— QKt2 
Kt— Kt6 ch. j rQXP 

-Kt sq. 

•PX 

18 

PxKt 
BPxP 

15 

17 
18 

PxQPdis.ch. 
K-B2 71 

R— Ktsq. 
KR— KKt sq. 

.K— R 

sq. 

'B— Kt5 
,R-K7 

— Q2 

" K— Esq. 

— K2 

34 

RXB 

CKR— K sq. 

»Kt-Kt3 QR-KKtsq. 

,KR-Ksq. 350=1^ 

49 

25 

-Q 
-Q 

>— ^3 
5— B6 

46 

Q-B3 
P— KR4 

»Q-< 
,K— Kt2 

5O 

£lilQ_B2 

g»Q-K3 56 

9iR~KB4 

«*QR— QB sq. 
QR— KB sg. 
R— B2 
,Q-KKt3 57 

' qR-B7ch.62 
00K-B3 
Q.Q-K8ch_ 
04K-B4 

"^K— Esq. 
9 R-E7ch. 

««K— Ktsq. 

20 
21 

QXQBP ch. 
K— B sq. 72 

Q— Q8 ch. 
K— B2 

Q— B6 ch. 
K— K sq. 

B— Kt2 D 73- 

QXP 

R — K sq. ch. 

K--Rsq. 

'P— KKt4 47 nnQ— R7 ch- D 
_"OKxQ [51 
nnR— R sq- ch- 

0 "and mates next 

move. 

OQV— 

"°R— 65 D58 
9-Kt— R7ch.59 
"IK— Ksq. 6O 
9qQ-KKt7_ 

UUR— KRs 
npR— QBsq.ch. 

nyP-QiUch. 

23 
24 

KtxP D68onK-Q2 

R— K7ch. 
K-Qsg. 

Kt— Kt3 69 " R— KB7 dis.ch. 
-Q$^ andwins 0 CK— K sq. 

9j| 
" ^ 

R-QKtsg. ch. 

K-R6 
White mates in 

~8~inoves. 63 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 137 

Judd, Sellmann and Ware v. Delmar Moehle and Grundy. 

38. ( lame 5. — Not a good move for they obtain a position quite identical with one arising in the French 
defence excepting that they are a move behind. 

39. Game 5. — The routine play in this opening, but inadvisable in the present situation, Kt — K5 was far 
superior. 

40. Game 5. —We prefer QKt— Q2 followed by Kt— Kt3 and P— QB3 with the ultimate object of fixing 
one of their pieces at 0.4. 

41. Game 5. — Quite useless. They had nought to fear from the adverse B and could have played 12 

B— Q3 ; whereupon if 13 QB— KKt5, 13 BxKt ; 14 BxB, 14 KtxP and obviously White dare 

not retake on pain of losing the Q by BxP ch., and if 15 BxP, 15 R— Kt sq., still remaining with 
a P ahead. 

42. — Game 5. — Also loss of time as White could not well play Kt — QKt5 without subjecting himself to 
the fixture of the adverse Kt in the centre at Q4. 

43. Game 5.— All contrary to our principles as explained in our introduction. 

44. Game 5. — Rather a bold advance which makes the KtP a mark of attack from the hostile KBP. 

45. Game 5. — Waste of time all the more as 20. . . .P — KB4 was clearly much stronger, in which case 
if 21 P— Kt5, 21 PXP ; 22 PXP, 22 P— 65 + , for if 23 BxP, 23 RXB ; 24 RxR, 24 QxP ch., 
and unless White played 21 P — Kt5 Black was bound to obtain some advantage by opening the 
KB file or by Q— RS to follow. 

46. Game 5.— Clearly if Kt— Kt6 Black answers Q— 63 and White dare not capture the R. 

47. Game 5. — An illjudged counter attack which ends in their own discomfiture. Better was 26. . . .P — 

KKt3 ; for White could not well advance 27 P — Kt5 in reply, on account of Black exchanging 
Pawns followed by Q — R sq. ch. or Q — B6 accordingly. 

48. Game 5. — An excellent resource which not alone releases White's game from the pressure of hostile 
pieces btrt transfers the attack completely into their own hands. 

49. Game 5. — At last the B which has been threatened to be taken off by R or Q for the last two moves 
is safely fixed and Black's King is accordingly imprisoned. 

50. Game 5. — This helps the opponents but there was no help for themselves. If 36 Q — Ky ch.; 37 

R-Kt2, 37 QxQ ; 38 RXQ, 38 Kt— <?4 ; 39 R— R3, 39 KtXB ; 40 PxKt dis. ch. and mates next 

• move. 

51. Game 5. — A very pretty termination. 

Anderssen v. Kolisch. 

52. Game 6. — Compare our columns 20 and 21. 

53. Game 6.— 12 KtxP would have been unsound on account 12 PxKt; 13 BxP, 13 Q— K3; 14 R 

— Q3, I4BXP+. 

54. Game 6.— Necessary, for if 17 BxP, 17 KtxKt; 18 BxKt, 18 QxB and wins. 

55. Game 6.— 18 KtxR would not have been good on account of 18. . . .Q — R5; 19 PxP!, 19 BxP ch;. 
20 R— B2, 20 s>— 63, etc. 

56. Game 6.— White could have won at least one P by QxB followed by KtXQP dis. ch., but on account 
of the Bishops of opposite color the game was likely to end in a draw after that. 

57. Gama 6. — A very strong move. 

58. Game 6.— Probably his best. If 26 K— K2; 27 Q— Kt7, 27 R— KB sq.; 28 BxP, 28 BxB; 29 

Kt— Kt8 ch., and wins. 

59. Game 6. — Very fine play. 

60. Game 6.— Of course if RxKt White could win the Q by RxP ch. 

61. Game 6.— Best. Perhaps the simplest plan would have been Q — R8 ch. followed by 

(Continued on page 

•j* 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

GAME No. 5. 

Move 3$. Q— R; ch. 

BLACK — DELMAR, MOEHLE AND GRUNDY. 

m 4 H 

GAME No. 6. 

Move 26 R— 65. 

BLACK — KOLISCH. 

Mlf 

88^ * 

• if 

WHITE — JUDD, SELLMANN AND WARE. 

WHITE— ANDERSSEN. 

GAME No. 7. 

Move 23. KtXP. 

BLACK — POTIER. 

^ is. i/m>/'\* 

L- - _ 
- * « - 

WHITE — MORPHY . 
(Playing 8 games blindfold) 

GAME No. 8. 

Move 21 B — Kt2. 

BLACK— KIESERITZKY. 

WHITE— AMATEUR. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 139 

(Continued from page 137 .) 

62 Game 6.— 33 Q— Kt; ch. is deceptive, as White gains nothing after 33 Q— Q2; and if 34 R— By?; 

35 R — Kt5 dis. ch., and wins. 

63. Game 6.— Thus: 39 R— KB3 ch., 39 KxP; 40 Q— K.2 ch., 40 KxR; 41 R— Kt3 ch., 41 K— B8; 42 
Q-K sq. ch., 42 K-By; 43 Q-QKt sq. ch., 43 K-Q7; 44R— Q3 ch.,44K-K7; 45Q-Q sq. ch., 
45 K— 67; 46 R— 63 mute. 

Morphy v. Potier. 

64. ( ianu- 7. This move equalizes the game, but as shown in Col. 28 Black may maintain the P by 4 

. . . . KtXKt with a safe game. 

65. Game 7. — P — 63 followed by B — Q3 is much superior. 

66 Game 7. — A weak move. Black is losing too much time, and his King's side is also compromised 
by this advance. 

67. Game 7. — Black drops into the ingenious trap laid by the opponent. K— Kt sq. was now indis- 
pensable. 

t58. Game 7. — Highly ingenious and, considering that White was playing this blindfolded along with seven 
other games, the combination initiated by this move belongs to the finest pieces of Chess Strategy. 

69. Game 7.— Obviously, if KKtXB White mates on the move by RxKtP ch., and if 24 QKtxB; 25 

RXKt dis. ch., 25 Kt— B2; 26 RxKt, and wins. 

Amateur v. Kieseritzky. 

70. Game 8.-— Compare up to this juncture Table 6, Col. 19. The right move is here 14 Q — Q5 ch. 

71. Game 8.— Best. If 16 K— Q2, 16 R— Kt sq.; 17 QxP, 17 RXP ch.; 18 K— 63, 18 B— KS; 19 B— 
Q2, 19 Q — 62 ch., with a winning attack. 

72. Game 8.— If 19 K— K sq., 19 Q— K$ ch. ; 20 K— Q sq., 20 B— K2; 21 B— Q2 (or 21 R— K sq., 21 Q 
— B6 ch. ; 22 R— K2, 22 P— Q6, and wins), 21 Q— B6 ch. ; 22 K— K sq , 22 R— K sq., and wins 

73. ' Game 8.— Black's attack is excellently conducted. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

The move 2. . . .P — Q3, in the KKt opening, is already noticed in the Gottingen 
M. S. and by Italian authorities. The defence thereby initiated is now known as 
Philidor's Defence, bearing its name after the great French master who first gave it an 
extensive analysis. Philidor chiefly rested his defence on the counterattack by 3. ... P — K 
B4 in reply to 3 P — Q4. More modern researches have, however, proved this move 
absolutely unsound. Philidor probably based his preference of 2. ... P — Q3 on the 
idea that the Knight ought not to obstruct any Pawn in the early part of the game. 
Modern experience has proved quite the contrary, and both the KKt opening, as well as 
the QKt opening are now recognized as belonging to the strongest initiatory moves for 
the attack on the second move, albeit in each case a Pawn is obstructed by the develop- 
ment of the respective Knights. 

In our opinion, not alone the continuation 4. . . .P — KB4 on which Philidor chiefly 
based his defence, but the whole opening is more disadvantageous for the second player 
than the regular 2. . . .QKt — 63. For the attack, however, we find that after 3 P — Q4, 
3 PXP; the continuation 4 KtXP is much stronger than 4 QXP, which used to be in- 
variably favored by old masters. 

In all the variations arising from the last-named move, it seems to us that White can 
only equalize the game, and if he tries to force the attack, he even gets the worst of it. 
This is chiefly due to the circumstance that he has to exchange a B for a Kt very early, 
and the power of the two combined Bishops is quite strong enough to keep at least the 
balance for Black. On the other hand, 4 KtX? is, on principle, the natural move, for 
it frees White's KBP for an ultimate attacking advance, and White's KKt in the center 
cannot easily be got rid of, as it obviously weakens Black's QP to advance P — QB4. In 
our own practice we have favored 3 B — B4 for the attack, which the author introduced 
in 1865, in the Dublin Tournament against the Rev. G. A. MacDonnell. It may pro- 
duce a slow game, like the Giuoco Piano, but Black will labor under the disadvantage 
of not beinj; able to make good use of either of his Bishops, for his KB evidently 
remains blocked; and as regards the QB, it appears to us equally unfavorable for the 
second player to attempt its exchange for the adverse KKt by B — KKt$, as to oppose 
White's KB at K3. In the latter case Black will be saddled with a bad doubled Pawn 
in the centre, which also hampers his advancing his QP, as thereby both his King's 
Pawns are left isolated if White does not exchange Pawns. 

The first table is devoted to the attack 3 B — B4, which we hold to be at least as 
good as 3 P — Q4. In Col. i we illustrate the mode of procedure against the defence 3 
. . . .B — K2, and we differ from authorities who recommend 4 P — Q4. Our substitution 
of 4 P — 63 seems to us preferable on the ground that it gives White the option of form- 
ing a centre by the advance of P — Q4, or else of supporting his loose KP by P — Q3. 

In the next column we give a variation that is likely to be played for the defence, 
though we have not seen it mentioned, and the point of the line of play indicated is 
somewhat instructive for beginners, inasmuch as it shows that White obtains much the 
superiority, though he has to move his King early in the game. 

In Col. 3 we present some modifications of the lines of play on each side which were 
hitherto considered the best, and the steady sort of development which we afterward 

PHILIDOR S DEFENCE. ,4, 

favor for the first player, seems to us to yield a slow but sure advantage, especially under 
the circumstances that Black cannot get rid of his doubled center Pawn. 

In Col. 4 we propose our amendment on one of the established lines of play on 
White's sixth move; the complications and the tactical surprises that arise from our 
alteration will, we believe, afford good instruction for the student. 

The next column shows in what manner the6thmovehitherto recommended can be 
met, and by a mere alteration of Black's next reply, for which 6. . . .Q — 83 used to be 
recommended, we think we prove in conjunction with the subsequent demonstration 
that the variation ought to end in favor of the defence. 

The main play of the last column of the Table is already given by Allgaier, and we 
have only suggested some slight tactical improvement at the end where a mating posi- 
tion is pointed out that has hitherto been overlooked. 

In Cols. 7 and 8 of the second Table we have to reverse the judgment that seems 
to have been accepted by most authorities, for we approve of 9 KtXR which, we be- 
lieve, has been condemned on fallacious grounds; whereas, we discard 9 KtXB, which 
hitherto was considered best. In Col. 9, however, the advantage accruing to White by 
best play on the other side (though no doubt the best defence is far from obvious in 
minor variations pointed out) is so small that on account of this variation alone we 
would recommend the move 4 P — Q3 in preference to 4 P — Q4 as the safer course. 

In Col. 10 positions are equalized in consequence of our proposition 6. . . .Kt 
— Kt sq., in lieu of 6. . . .Kt — K2 hitherto authorized. In fact, owing to the far advanced 
QP, we would very slightly prefer Black's game for reasons indicated in our introduc- 
tion. But the difference is so imperceptible in the present position, owing to the unde- 
veloped state of Black's king's side, that we did not feel justified in marking the position 
notably in favor of the defence. 

Col. 1 1 is given as an example of a feasible line of play that might be adopted -for 
the defence by inexperienced players, and it is shown how to take advantage of Black's 
defective tactics in a speedy manner. 

In Col. 1 2 we quite agree with the conclusions of the authorities that the initiatory 
• move of the variation ought to end in White's favor, but we introduce some varieties in 
the demonstrations which lead to very interesting complications. 

Table III presents the old attack by 3 P — Q4 and 4 QXP. The line of play adopted 
by Harrwitz against Morphy on the yth move is the key to the defence, and we show in 
CoL 13 that Black obtains an advantage in position if White pursue the plan of exchang- 
ing Knights and Queens. 

Col. 14 is an ingenious idea of Herr Hamppe, the author of the Vienna opening. 
It has not been noticed in the books yet, but it is, nevertheless, so strong for the defence 
as to be in itself an undeniable answer to the old attack by 7 QB — Kt5. 

In Col. 1 5 we prefer the retreat of 8 B — K3 in accordance with one of our maxims 
laid down in our introduction, namely, that the B should, if possible, be posted in the 
centre and keep command of both wings, and we think the position arising from our 
suggestion shows greater advantage on its surface for White than the variations springing 
from 8 B — R4, which used to be the fashion twenty years ago. 

In Col. 1 6 we notice the defence 4. . . .B — K3, and again we base new demonstra- 
tions on the reserved attack 8 B — K3 in preference to the old book move 8 B — R.4, and 
we believe the logical sequence will show that the B comes in more handy for the attack 
at the post we select. 

Col. 1 7 is a variation which, in our opinion, leads to an even game, though 

has the advantage of his two Bishops that in most lines of play in this opening gives the 
defence the preferable position. The point is that White, having again posted his QB — 

< 

142 

PIIILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

K3 instead of K — Kt5, does not afford opportunities for the defence to gain time by 
withdrawing his Kt and offering an exchange. 

Col. 1 8 treats an attack that sometimes has been favored by old masters like Lowen- 
thal, for instance, but has been somewhat underrated in theory, for we consider, it any- 
how, stronger than the old line of play, 4 QXP. The column is quoted from the Lip- 
schutz edition of Gossip 's Manual. 

On Table IV the same initiatory line of play is further tested against the answer 
4. ...KKt — 63, with a similar result in favor of the first player, who, though he does 
not gain any material, manifestly obtains the superior position. 

Col. 20 deals with the famous counterattack which Morphy adopted against various 
players and produced in his practice some of the finest specimens of brilliancy. Some 
will be found in our game department of this opening, but though the initiatory 3. . . .P 
— KB4 is almost unanimously condemned in modern analysis opinions differ as regards 
the line of play to be adopted for the attack. We give in Col. 20 the one that has been 
held the strongest by various authors, but introduce some modifications on White's nth 
move which we think leads" to a quicker and more potent result for White. 

Yet we cannot help showing our misgiving about the efficiency of the whole line of 
attack commenced by White with 4 QKt — 63, for we think that an apparently slight al- 
teration in the order of moves as hitherto given produces an even game for the defence. 

For that reason we altogether give preference in Col. 22, to 4 PXQP, for the attack, 
and this line of play might also be available for the first player in the counter gambit on 
the second move arising from i P— K4, i P— K4; 2 KKt— 63, 2 P— KB4; 3 PXP, 3 P 
— Q.3) 4 P — Q4, 4 P — K5, which, by transposition of moves, shows the same situation 
as in Col. 22. The next column gives a similar result in White's favor against the most 
feasible alteration of the defence. 

In Col. 24 we turn into lines of play arising from two more moves that actually oc- 
curred in Morphy's play, and though no doubt it is preferable to adopt the attack given 
in our Col. 22 on the 4th move, we believe that even at that stage on the 6th move we 
can prove the advantage for the first player in consequence of a modification of the at- 
tack with 6 QKt — 63. Other continuations of this form of opening will be found in 
the Illustrative Games. 

Table V deals with continuations for the defence with the result that by best play 
White obtains the superiority, but any indifferent move in the attack enables Black to get 
an even game. But noteworthy is Col. 29 in which Black has an opportunity of gaining 
a P on the 6th move, and his seizing that advantage seems very feasible. Yet the de- 
fence is thereby involved into great difficulties which, however, require some niceties of 
play on White's part in order to obtain the superiority for his side. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

143 

P-K4 

KKt-B3 

First Continuation 
First Defence 
Second Defence - 
Third Defence 
Fourth Defence - 

1 _ 

Second Continuation 
First Defence 

Second Defence - - 
Third Defence - - 
Fourth Defence 
Third Continuation 
First Defence 
Second Defence 
Fourth Continuation 
Fifth Continuation 
Sixth Continuation 
Seventh Continuation 
Eighth Continuation 

KKt— 63 

144 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 
9KKt-B3 

,B-B4 

P— K4 

6 

5— K2 

2 3KKt— B? SB-KI 5 3p_K 

B3 
Kt-Kts 

5 UP— KB4 

BXB_ 

4PXB 

4 

P-Q4 8 

0-0 

PXP 

Kt— K 

t— B3 

Q-Kt3 

4 UQ_Bsq- 
,O— O 

7 

_B - Kt3 17°. —B3 

'B— Kt5 IQ—K2 ch. 'Kt— B3 

P-KR3+ 3 K-Qsg.+ .Kt-Kts 

^KKt— R3 *- 

RKtxP Ro-o? pQ-Rs ch. 

°Q— K2 9 °Kt— B3 12 "K-C^ 

-Q— R5 ch. ^PXP 13 -Q— Bjch. 

K— ( 

BXP 

K-B3 

Kt— Q sq. 6 UQXP ch. 
OP— KR3 

nQB-KKt5 flR-K sg. ch. QXP (K5) 
Orwp rh ' OK— Q2 Op— QR3 

Kt~R3 

11 

K— R sq + 

.B— K6 ch. 

Q-Kts 10 UBXB 

Q-K16 

10 

KtxB 

B— KI ch. 

BxBch. 

12 

P— B3 11 

P_KR3+ I) 

tP— QKt4 ch.! 
~~IS 

Column 4. Move 12 P — KR3. 
BLACK. 

16 

R— Kt sq. ch. 
1C=B^ 17 

KtxPch.+ D 

Column 6. Move 15 KtxP ch. 
BLACK. 

WHITE. 

PIIIl.IDOR'S IH.H.V I I45 

1. Col. i.— We consider this quite as good at least, as 3 P— Q4. 

2. Col. I. — A move favored by Ilarrwitz. 

3. Col. i.— White has a position similar to one arising in the Giuoco Piano, with the advantage that 

I'.luck's KB is confined and is likely to remain so. Should Black now exchange B against Kt, White 
retakes with the Q followed soon by P— KKt^, Q— K.2, K— Kt2, and P— KB4, as occurred between 
the author and Mr.MacDonnellin Dublin. Should, however, Black now answer 8. . . .B— R4 then 
White would advance P — KKt4, followed by Q — K.2, with the superior game. 

4. Col. 2.— If 6. . . .P— KR3 ; 7 PX?+. 

:6. Col. 3. — Or 3 B— Kt$ ; 4 P — KR3 ; because he ought not to wait until Black may play Q — 63, and 

then double the KBP followed by Kt— K.2 and Kt— Kt3, the weak point at White's KB4, and the 
latter' s doubled Pawn at least balances his two Bishops in such a position. 

6. Col. 3.— If 8 K— K2 ; 9 KtxKP, 9 QxKt ; 10 QxP+.— (German Handbuch.} 

7. Col. 3. — Black is hampered by his doubled Pawn, and the continuation might be II Kt— B3 (of 

course Black dare not capture the Pawn twice on account of the ultimate Q — R4 ch. ); 12 P — 63, 12 
B— 64 ; 13 Kt— Q2, 13 O— O ; 14 Q— B2, followed by Kt— Kt3 and B— Q2. White will ultimately 
have the option of opening the game after the preparations either by P — KB4, or P — Q4, or else by 
advancing the QRP, or he may play the waiting game, and rely on the better position of his Pawns 
for the ending. 

8. Col. 4. — The simplest and surest plan of continuing the attack is we believe 4 P — Q3, which gives a 
position similar to the King's Gambit declined, with a move ahead for White and Black's KB shut in. 

19. Col. 4.— If 6....Q-R5; 7 Kt-Kt5, 7 PxP ! (or 7. . . .Kt-B3? ; 8 P-QKt3, 8 Q-Kts ; 9B— K2, 
and wins); 8 QxP+- The German Handbuch gives the following variations: If 6....RxKt; 7 
Q— R5 ch., 7 K— Q2 ; 8 Q— Kt6, 8 R— R sq. ; 9 BxKt, 9 Q— K2 (should the Q move to 63 White 
would exhange Queens and Bishops followed by PxP with a P ahead); 10 QXBP ch., 10 K— Qsq.; 
ii QB— KKt5, ii BXQ ; 12 BXQ ch., 12 BxB ; 13 PxB+. 

10. Col. 4.— After 9 B-K2; loR— Ksq., 10 BxB ch.; ii QxB, ii QxR ch. (ori2 Q— Kt5 ? ; 

13 B— Kt5 ch., and mates next move); 12 KxQ, 12 RxKt ; 13 Q— Kt6, White also wins with ease. 

11. "~Col. 4.— Or 4 P— 65 ; 12 R— K sq., 12 P— 63 ; 13 Q— K8 ch., 13 K— B2 ; ^Qor B— Q8 mate. 

Col. 5. — As shown in the German Handbuch White wins if 6 QB3 by 7 PxP, 7 BxP; 8 R— K 

sq. ch., 8 K— Q2; 9 B— K6 ch., 9 BxB ; 10 KtXB, 10 Kt— 63 ; n BxKt, u Q or PxB ; 12 
Q— Kt4, etc. 

Col. 5. — Now, the resource 7 KtX? does not answer as well on account of 7 Q— R5; 8 P— KKt3. 

(or 8 Kt— Kt5, 8 KKt— Kt5; 9 KKt-B3, 9 Q— R4), 8. . . .Q— Kt5; 9 B— K2, 9 Q— Kt3; icKtX 
B, 10 KxKt; and we prefer Black's game. 

Col. 6.— Or 10 P— 64; ii PxP e.p.t ii KxP; 12 Kt— 63, 12 Q— Q3 (or 12 B— Q3; 13 B— 

Kt5 ch., 13 PXB; HQxQKtPch., I4K— 62; 15 Kt— Q5 mates); 13 B— Kt5 ch., I3PXB!; HQxQ; 
KtP ch., 14 K— B2; 15 B— Kt6 ch., 15 QXB; 16 Kt— Q5 ch., and wins.— German Handbuch. 

Col. 6.— If 12 KxB; 13 QxP ch., 13 K— Kt4; 14 P— QR4 ch., 14 K— Kt3; 15 Q— Q4 ch., 15 P 

— 64; 1 6 QxP mates. German Handbuch. 

Col. 6.— Or 13... Q-B3; 14 R— Kt sq. ch., 14 K moves; 15 QxBP with or without ch., and 
wins. 

Col. 6.— If 14 K— R4; 15 Q— Q4, /5 Q— 63 or Q3; i6Kt— Kt3 ch., 16 K— Kt$ (if 16 K— R$; 

17 BxP double ch., and mates next move either by Q— R4 or P— R4); 17 P— R3 ch., 17 KxP; 18 
R_QR Sq. ch., 1 8 K— Kt4; 19 P— 63 mate. 

Col. 6.— White wins with ease, for if 15 K— Kt3 (or 15 KXB; 16 R— Kt4 ch., 16 KxR; 17 

Q— 63 ch., 17 K— R5; 18 Kt— 65 mate); 16 Q— 04 ch., 16 K— R4 (if 16 K— Kt2; 17 Kt— Bj 

ch., 17 K— R2; 18 KtxRP dis. ch., 18 KxKt; 19 BxP ch., 19 K— R4 ! ; 20 Q— Kt4 ch., 20 K-Kt 

3; 21 B— B6 dis. ch., 21 K— R2; 22 Q -65 ch., 22 K— R3; 23 Q— R3 mate); 17 BxP, 17 Px 
i8Q— Kt4-ch., i8K— R3; 19 QXP ch., 19 K— R2; 20 Q— 65 ch., 20 K— R3; 21 Q— R3 mate. 

M6 

IP— K^ 

7 

4pXKP 

5 

6p-KKt3 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 
?KKt-B3 

8 

P_Q4 

Q-R5 ch. 

' KKt— B3 

gQ-Ks ch. 
&B-K2 

QKtxR 19 QKtXB? 
UPXB ' 8QKt-Q2 

nKt-B3! 20<nQ-Kt3 
"Kt— B3 

4Q-KKt5! 

9 

gB-B4 
UP— KB4? 

10 

-OPxKP pKt— Kts 

OQPXKP 25 &Kt-R3 

0QXQ ch. DP-Q5 

P-Q4 

11 

12 

29 

; B. 

"QKt-(^Kt sq. ! u Kt— K2 ? 

30 
7QB-Kt5 ch. 7QKt-B3 31 ?QKt-B3 

'Kt— B3 'PXP 'PXP 

nKt-B3 

B— Q3 26 UB— B4— 

O— O— O 
PXP 

nKt-Q2 27 

1 UQB— Kts 

12 

B— K3 21ilKR— Ktsq. 

0-0 * 0QXP 

Q— Q2 22 ' 

P-Q5 D , 

11- 

28 

14 

R-Qsq.+23 

t_Kts+ D 
24 

7 

P— B3 
P-KB4 

QB— Kts ch. 
HP— B3 

UKPXP 

fllr^KTT 

wivt — Jvt^ 

10 
11 
12 

pxp 

10 

Q-R5 

PXP 321UQ— B3 

KtxPch. 4 4°—° 
K— Q2 

Q-Q3 + 

34 

12B-B4 

14 

PXP+ 35 

Column 7. Move I3 P— Q$. 
BLACK. 

l 

Column 8. -Move I3 Kt— Kt5- 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 147 

Col. 7.— White may also play 9 QxB ch., 9 QxQ; 10 KtxQ, 10 KxKt; II B— K2, n R— Kt sq.; 
12 P — KKt3 witn a F ahead and a good game. 

Col. 7.— Not 10 B— Kt5, 10 Kt— 83; u Q— Kt5, n QxP, 12 BxKt, 12 QxB; 13 Q— RS ch., 13 K 
— B sq. ; 14 QXP, 14-8—84; 15 Q— RS, 15 K— Kt2+, a variation given in i\&Handbuch in White's 

favor. We may add that Black might also proceed in the I ith move of this variation with 1 1 Q 

— Q4; 12 Kt— 63; 12 KB— QKt5. 

Col. 7.— Or 1 1.... QxP; i2Kt— Kt5, I2Q— Qsq.; 136—64+. Or if n. . . .KtXP; I2O— O, 128 
— K3 (against any other move White could advantageously play KKt— Kt6or QKtxKP); 13 R — Q 
sq., 13 Q— Q2; 148— K3, 14 P— 64; 15 Kt— Kt5, 15 QxKt; 16 BxKt-f. 

Col. 7.-If 12... .K-Q2; 13 R-Q sq., 13 Kt-Q4; 14 Q-H5, 14 Q-K sq.; 15 QxP, 15 QxKt; 

i6QxQ, i6RxQ; i7KtxP+. 
Col. 7.— White will save his piece. If for instance 14. . . .O — O — O; 15 Kt — 67, 15 R — Kt sq. ; 16 

RXB, 16 RxQ; 17 RXQ, 17 R— Kt2; 18 RxB, and wins. 

Col. 8. — Though White is a P ahead he has not a good game. He cannot now venture on 14 
on account of 14 KtxB; 15 PxKt, 15 Q— RS ch. ; 16 K— Q sq., 16 Q— R4 ch., and wins. 

Col. 9.— If 5. . . .BPXP; 6 Q— Qs, 6 Q— Q2; 7 QxKP (better than 7 P— K6, 7 Q-K2; 8 QxKP 
8 Kt— 63; 9 Q-K2, 9 Kt— QR4), 7 Q— K2 (if 7. . . .PXP; 8 KtxP, 8 Q— K2; 9 B— B7 ch., 9 K— 
Q sq.; 10 KtxKt ch. + ) 8 QB-KKts, 8 Kt— 63; 9 BxKt, 9 PxB; 10 P— K6, 10 Kt— R4; 11 Kt— 
63, ii KtxB, 12 Kt— Qs, 12 Q— Q sq; 13 QxKt, 13 P— 63; 14 Q— KR4 sq., 14 Q— R4 ch.; 15 Kt 
—63, 15 B— K2; 16 Kt— Q4+. 

Col. 9.— If 8 P— KR3; 9 R-Q sq. ch., 9 B— Q3; 10 BxKt ch., 10 PxB; 11 KKt— R4, 

threatening PxP as well as Kt — Kt6, followed by 6—67. 

Col, 9.— After 10 QKtxP, 10 K— K2; n KR— K sq., II B— K3; the game is about even. 

Col. 9. — White has a slight advantage. A seductive but unsound line of play presents itself at this 
point, for White might apparently gain a great advantage now by 11 KKtxP, n BxR; 12 KtxKt, 
but if after 12. .. .P— KR3; 13 B— R4, 13 P-KKt4; 14 B-Kt3, 14 QB— KKt$ ! ; 15 KtxB, 15 P— 
KR4 threatening P — RS if White remove the Kt, Black recovers the piece and remains with the ex- 
change ahead. 

Col. io.— After 6 KtXP, 6 Q— RS; 7 Kt— Kt$ (if 7 QB— KKtS, 7 QxKP ch.; 8 K— B sq., 
8 Q — Kt$— ); 7 KtXP we slightly prefer Black's position. 

Col. io. — We consider this the only move for Black which enables him to meet White's attack. 

Col. io. — Should White play 7 KtXP the reply 7. . . .Q — RS would not be effective on account of 
8 Kt-KtS, 8 PXP; 9 P— KKt3, 9 Q— KtS; io QxQ, io BxQ; " QKt— 63 with the better game. 

But Black would in such case reply 7 RxKt; 8 Q— RS ch., 8 P— Kt3 ! (it should be noted 

thatif 8. ...K— Q2; 9 Q— Kt6, and I wins); 9 QxPch., 9 R— 62; loBxKt, io Q— RS, n 
ii QxKPch.; 12 B— K2, 12 KxB. Even game. 

32: Col. ii.— If io BxQ; n PX? dis. ch., ii Kt— 63; 12 BxKt ch. and wins, or if io Q— R4 

ch.; II Kt— 63, II QXB; 12 KtxQ; 12 BxQ; 13 KtxQP ch., 13 K— Q sq.; 14 Kt— K6 mate. 

33. Col. 12.— The Hattdbuch gives here the following continuation 8. . . .QBPxP; 9 PXQP, 9 P— KS; 
io B— Kt$ cll*> io B-Q2; ii Kt— K6, ii Q— Kt3?; 12 Kt— R4, 12 Q— R4 ch. (of course if QxB 
Black wins at once by Kt— 67 ch., but as will be seen Black's Q has no escape); 13 B— Q2 + . 

14. Col. 12,— If ii ... .Q-Q5 ch.; 12 K— R sq , 12 QxB; 13 KKtxRP and wins. 

15. Col. 12.— For evidently Black cannot retake the P by 14 PX? on account of 15 Kt— 67 15 KtX 

Kt; 16 BxKt ch. winning easily. 

148 

.P-K4 
IP— K4 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 
QKKt-B3 

13 

QXP? 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

t— B3 ! 
KB— QKts 

B— K3 ? 
B— KKts 

t— KB3 tp— g4 
.Kt— B3 48 rPxP 

BxKt 

QKt— Q2 
QKt-B^ 

KB-QKts 

7B-Kt5 „ 

'Kt— B3! 36 'B— K2 39 ' P— B3 ? 42 ' P— B3 

7, 

.QxKtP 40 

'BXB 

43 nB-K3 45 0B-K3 

QQ-K2 ch. 
Dfi-Ka 

pKt-Kts 
'Kt— R3 

«QKt-B3 

QxB 
QxQ 

t— K2 

QXR 

21 QKt-B3 
^Kt— Kt3 

OKt— K4 

QKt-Q4 
OQ_Q_O 

UB-K2 

n°-Q-° 
ao— o 

B-B4 

Kt— B3 

37,nBXQ 

p~KB4 

PXP 

. .BXP 

L— KKt sq. * ^K— Q 

11 

1 0'Kt— Ktf 
44..B-Kt5 

ifiQ~B4~ in( 

^Q_Bsq.— iU 

'— B3 46 

. 9K-B sq. 
l«O-( 

IQ-O-O+ 38 

KtxB- 

QXPch. 

— Ktsq. 

Kt-Q2 

16 

Q-B7ch.+ D 
47 

Column 14. Move 9 QxR. 

BLACK. 

Column 1 6. Move 1 6 Q — By ch. 

BLACK, 

WHITE. 

WHITE. 

PllILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 149 

Coh 13.— Played by Harrwitz against Morphy, and we believe quite sound. The game referred to 
proceeded 8 Kt-B3, 8 B-K2; 9 O-O-O, 9 O— O; 10 KR— K sq., 10 P— KR3; 11 B-R4, 11 Kt 
-Ksq.; I2BXB, 12 QxB; 13 P— K5, 13 B <Kt; I4PXH, 14 Q— Kt4ch.; 15 K— Kt sq., 15 PxP; 
16 RxP, 16 Q-Kt;. 

Col. 13.— If loQKt— Q2, 10 KR— KKt sq.; u O— O (or n KKt— R4?, u R-Kts; 12 P— KKt3, 
12 BXP; 12 P— KB3, 12 B— 63 + .), n. . . .B— R3; 12 R— K sq., 12 O— O— O; 13 P— KKt3 (Black 

threatens P— KB4, and if PxP then KBxQKt, etc.), 13 QR— K sq., and we prefer Black's 

game. 

Col. 13. — Black will recover his P with the better game. He threatens now BxKt followed by R — 
Kt4; or else 12 B— Kt2 followed after exchanging the QKt by B— KS. 

Col. 14. — This ingenious variation was invented and generally adopted for the defence by Herr 
Hammppe of Vienna. It goes to show that the old attack by 4 QxP is not an effective one; for 
no more than an even game can be expected to result at the end of the main variation in which we be- 
lieve all the moves on each side are forced after QxKtP. In fact, as we propose to show White 
has the more difficult game of the two, and has to play most carefully in order to equalize matters. 

Col. 14.— 8 BxB, 8 QXB; gQxKtP, 9 Q— 63; 10 QxQ, 10 KtxQ. Even game. 

Col. 14; — Black has now the attack whicli may be neutralized to the extent of a draw, but only by 
best play on the part of White. The game might proceed: 16 P— 63, 16 P— Q4; 17 K — B2, 17 B 
PXP; 18 PXP, 18 PXP; 19 Kt— 64, 19 Kt— 63. If, however, 17 O— O, 17 BPxP; 18 PX?, 18 P 

XP; 19 R— B7 ch.? (or 19 Kt— 64, 19 K— K/j; and we slightly prefer Black), 19 K— Q3; 20 Kt 

— K2l, 20 R — K2; 21 R — B8, 21 Kt — R3 and again we think Black has the better game on account 
of the passed Pawn in the centre which can be well supported and also owing to the weakness of 
White's QRP which Black threatens to approach with his King. 

Col. 15. — A "hole" is now created in Black's centre. We have already explained in our chapter on 
the principles of play that this is a great source of weakness. 

Col. 15. — We prefer this on principle as the B is kept in communication with both wings and is less 
liable to attack at a future stage. None of the advantages that White can derive from his position 
are in any way hindered by placing the B at K3, and evidently White has more option of withdraw- 
ing it to 64 or Q2 accordingly or allowing it to be exchanged if necessary. 

Col. 15. — ii Kt — Q5, II BxKt; 12 PxB is also favorable for the attack, and White by proper play 
ought to be able to preserve his Kt from being exchanged, and then to plant it ultimately by way of 
Q4 to K6 or obtain some other advantage. 

Col. 16. — Again much better than 8 B — R4, the move usually recommended here. As will be seen, 
the B comes in very handy for the attack from his more natural post. 

Col. 16.— Or ii Q— K2 or — B2; 12 Kt— B6, 12 PxKt; 13 QxP, 13 K— Kt sq. best; 14 BxP 

ch., 14 KxB; 15 Q— R6 ch., 15 K— Kt sq.; 16 B — B6, and mates next move. 

Col. 16.— Might be continued 16 K— RS; 17 P— QKt4, 17 Q— Q2; 18 P— Kts ch., 18 QxP; 19 

QXR, and wins. 

Col. 17.— If 5 P— K5, 5 Q— K2l; 6 B— K3, 6 Kt— Kts; 7 PxP, 7 QXP. Even game. 

Col. 18. — We not alone concur with Lowenthal's opinion that this is a good move, but we feel sure 
it is much stronger than 4 QxP» which used to be favored by the best masters of old. 

Col. 18. — This move, which is much stronger than 10. . . .B — K5, is suggested in the Appendix to 
Gossip"1 s Manual by Mr. Lipschiitz. Black's best answer is O — O, and to abandon the Pawn, as 
evidently if 10 P — QB3; n R— Q sq. gives White a fine attack. 

150 

P-K4 

— K4 

19 

20 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 
0KKt-B3 

21 

22 

,P-Q4 

23 

24 

,KtXP 
*KKt— BS 

QKt-QB3 
&B-K2 

RB-Q3 

DO-O 

P— KB4? 
QKt-B3 

PXBP 

PXKP 

rQKtxP 
0P_Q4? 

nKKtxP 

5v 
0 vv Q— K2 

,KB— QKt5 nKKt — Q2 

5 

Kt— Kts 

KKt-B3 

P— KKt4 

~~61 

7 

0-0 

Q -R5 ch. «KtX? 

7£ 

'Kt— B3 

P-(,)4 51 ' P^Kt3 

5 «KtxP pB— Kt5 

hCts "KKt— B3 52 °B— K2 

"QKt-QB3 57 

7P-Q5 58 -QxPch 

IKt C^e /( 

,QKt-B3 64 
JP— 63 6S 

.P— K6 66 

P-KB4 

P— QB4 
Kt-B5 

12 

Kt— Q 
Q-B4 

Q— K2 
B-Q3 

KKtxKP 

nQ-K5 ch. 
«K-B2 

0-0 

O— 0 

UQ— K4 °QXQ ch 

«KKt-KB3 59 "KKt— KB3 

BXP 

67 

'K— Kt2 AUPXB 

Kt— R4 D 53 , . BxKt— 

.R__Oo 11 

QKtxBP 

— 63 

. nQ— RS ch. 

lOK-Q2 

t . O— O— O 

A nQ— Kt5 ch- 
IflK— B sq. 

, QQ— R6 ch. 
"K-Ksq. 

, .Kt— Kt6 

PXB— se11?— QR3 

izr-B4 

15 

12 

— 13 

B— K2 62 

QKt— Q2 ! 
O— O 

Kt— B sq.! + 
~~63 

'K— B sq. 

,KR— K sq. + 
D68 

KtxQ 

15 

KtxP + 

Column 20. Move n Kt — R4. 

BLACK. 

Column 24. Move 13 KR — K sq. 

BLACK. 

WHITE. 

1'IIIUDOR'S DEFENCE. 

Col. i9.-If7....Kt-Ksq.;8P-KB4+. 7. . . .P -QB4; 8 KKt-K2 leaves the QP weak. 

Col. 20.— Or 8. . . .PxKt; 9 QxR, 9 B— K$, 9 Q— KS + . 

Col. 20.— ii KtxR, ii KxKt; 12 QB— KKt5, 12 B— Kt2; 13 BxKt, 13 BxB; 14 QxKP is aUo 
very good. This is given by Zukertort, who first analyzed this attack from White's 5th move, 
which was first adopted by Bird against Morphy. 

Col. 20 Continued: 15 B— B sq.; 16 QB— Kt5, 16 Kt— Q2; 17 B— K6+ . 

Col. 21. — The chief point for the defence is to attack the Queen before White has played QB— KKt 

5. If, for instance, 5 PxP; 6 KtX?, 6 KKt-B3? (even now 6 QKt— 63 produces the same 

position as in our main line of play by a transposition of moves); 7 QB — KKt5, 7 B — K2; White 

has gained time, for 8 KB— QB4, 8 QKt— B3; 9 Q— K/j with a strong attack, for after 9 K— B 

sq.!; 10 BxKt, ioBxB; n O— O— Q White has evidently the superior game. 

Col. 21. — The game is even, for White cannot win the BP e. g., 13 Q— 64 ch., 13 P— Q4; 14 QXB 
P, 14 PxKt; 15 QXR, 15 PxKt, etc.+ . The two Pawns majority which White has are separated 
on two wings and are more than counterbalanced by Black's powerful two Bishops for a Rook. 

57 . Col . 22 .—If 6 .... KKt— 63 ; 7 P— KKt4 followed by B— KKt2 . 

58. Col. 22.— Not 7 Q — R5 ch., 7 Q — B2 recovering the P. 

59. Col. 22.— 9 P— K6; 10 PX?, 10 QxP ch.; ii K— Q sq. threatening KKt— 63, would be worse 

still for Black. 

60. Col. 22. — We see nothing better. If n . . . .QxP; 12 B — 64 wins the Q, which cannot remove- on 
account of B — 67 mate . 

61 . Col . 23 . -Or 6 .... Q— K2 ; 7 KKt -Q2 followed by B— Kt2 . 

62 . Col. 23.— If ii P— Q4; 12 QKt— Q2! followed mostly by Kt— KB sq. and Kt— Kt3+ . 

63. Col. 23. — The extra Pawn will be well supported by Kt — KKt3, and White's position is altogether 
the better one. 

Col. 24. — 6 P — R6, 6 KKt — R3; 7 QKt — 63 leads to the same position by a transposition of moves. 

Col. 24.— Or 6....KB-QKts; 7 P— K6, 7 P— Q5 (if 7. . . .KKt— RS; 8 Q— R$ ch. + ); 8 Kt— 67; 
8Q-B3;9P-QR3+. 

Col. 24.— 8 QKtxKP, 8 PxKt; 9 QxQ ch., 9 KxQ; 10 Kt— 67 ch., 10 K— K2l; ii KtXR is also 
good play, as White, after developing his QB and O— O — O, would win the KP by R— K sq. 

Col. 24.— For result of 8 PxKt see illustrative games 

Col. 24.— Black evidently cannot capture either piece on account of the reply accordingly RxP or. 
Q— K5 and if 13 Kt— Q2 White may either proceed with KtxP or B^-Kts,. 

. 

'52 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

25 

P-K4 

P— K4 

26 

27 

KKt-B3 

Q 

28 

29 

30 

'B— Kt5? 
,PXP 

B-B4 

KKt— B3 76 
77 

tBxKt 
rPXB 

OPXP 

nQXQ ch. 

°KXQ 

P-KB4_ 
'P— KB3 

QR— KKt sq. 
"P— KKt3 

SPXP 

Kt— 63 + 69 

68 r°-°_ 

" OB~KT 

B-K3 

70 
71 

5" — -"-i: 
B— Q2 

nBXKt 

-KtxP 
OB— K2 

Kt-B3 
'Kt— B3 

'O— O— 

10 

°Kt— B3 °PxB 

Kt-B3 72 nE-K 

IB— K2 

nO— O— O 

74 "KtxP? 
r,BxB 

'O— O 
,Kt— K sq. 

'Q-Ktsq.D75 '< 

nO-Q Q°-° 

°Q-Kt3 

QKt-B3 79 
'KtxP 

nQ~B3 
OKt— K4 "P— KR3 

P-B3 73 1f]B-R4- 

1U 1UR_R2_ 

"Kt— B4 

q— 

OB— 

8O 

R— K sq. 
B— K3 

(P-KB4 

QBXQ_ 
"KtxQ 

10 

QBXP 

BXP 

1 oQKt-B3+ 78 1 pKt-Kts 
A" Dl"KtxBch. 

, nPxKt- 

Col. 28. Move 7 Q— Kt sq. 

BLACK. 

m 

Col. 29. Move 12 QKt— 63. 

BLACK. 

i 

I'lIILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

Col. 25.— We give our variation as a specimen of a simple attack in the opening in which after the 
exchange of Queens the first player obtains the advantage with his two Bishops and the better devel- 
opment. The following main continuation is from the Handbuch : 5 QXB, 5 PxP; 6 B — QB4. 6 

Q— 63 ! (if 6 KKt— 63; 7 Q— QKt3 wins a pawn); 7 Q— QKt3, 7 P— QKt3; 8 Kt— 63, 8 P— 

83; 9O-O, 96— Q3; loKt— Kt5, 10 KKt— R3 (if 10 PxKt; 11 B— Q5); n B— Kt5, n Q— 

Kt3; 12 KtXB ch., 12 QxKt; 13 QR— Q sq., 13 Q— B2; 14 R— Q8 ch. and wins. 

Col. 25. — White will gain a rapid development by B — Kt5 ch. followed by O — O — O and then ac. 
cordingly Kt— Kt5 or — Q5 or KB— R3 or — QB4. 

Col. 26.— 5 P — QB4 is dangerous as White obtains a strong attack by 6 P — QB3, 6 PXP; 7 KtX 

P followed mostly by Q— Kt3- 

Col. 26. — White would only lose time by delaying the recapture. If for instance he lets the Pawn 
stand until after Black has played RKt — 63 the second player might well defend it by P — QB4 fol- 
lowed by O— O. 

Col. 27. — Stronger than B — Q3 which would give Black exchanging option later on by Kt — K4 or 
cause loss of time. It also prepares O — O — O while Black evidently can only castle on the opposite 
side and as White's Pawns can easily be mobilised for the attack on the King's side it is to White's 
advantage to clear at once the Queen's side where his King will be better placed. 

Col. 27. — White will continue the attack with P — KKt4 followed by B — K2, and then accordingly he 
may proceed with the advance of the KRP or the development by Kt — Kt2 avoiding the exchange 
of minor pieces as Black's game is hampered by his own pieces and exchanges would be a relief to him. 

. Col. 28. — In a game between Senor Golmayo (White) and the author, the same position arose in a 
Ruy Lopez by a transposition of moves. 

r5. Col. 28. — Avoiding the hole at K3 which was left by the inferior move 7 P — KB3 adopted by the 
author in the above named game. 

^ 6. Col. 29. — Another not uncommon defence is here 3 .... QKt — Q2 which however we believe to be dis- 
advantageous. White should proceed with 4 QKt — 63, 4 P — QB3 ; 5 B — K2 ! with the superior 
game. 

77. Col. 29. — We do not recommend this move and prefer QKt — 63. We however give the variation 

springing from the move in the text as it comprises interesting complications. 

78. Col. 29.— Continued 12 O— O; 13 P— 65, 13 PxP; 14 Kt— Qs, nQ-Qsq.; 15 RxB, 15 

i6KtxKP+. 

79 Col. 30.— Or 7 P— KB3, 7 P— Q4; 8 P— KS, 8 QKt— Q2; 9 QB— 64, 9 Kt— 64; followed by P— KB3 
with the better game. 

SO Col. 30.— If 8 QXB?; 9 Q— K2, 9 R— K sq.; 10 BxKt +. 

154 

Game 1, 

Vienna Congress. 
1882. 

WINAWER. 
BLACKBURNE 

PHIL! DOR'S DEFENCE. 
P— K4 nKKt— B3 oP~Q4 

P— K4 "P— Q3 

Game 2. 

STEINITZ 
RAINER. 

Q 

U 

Game 3. 

Salvioli. 

GOLDSMITH 
ESLING. 

i 

*** 
~~~- 

_^= 

^J 

~>*^ 
•«*^ 

KKt— B3 1 
.QKt— B3 

UP— KB4 

rQXP 2 

— • -Kt— Kts 

^B— K2 
DQB-KKt5 3 

_ P-K6 17 

bO-0 4 
0-0-0 

^ °KKt R3 
7QKt-B3 

^«B B4 21 
^ ^QKt— B3 22 

'QKt-B3 

'P— B3 
pKKtxKP 

-~'Q B3 23 
- pB— Kts ch. 

DP-QR3 5 

"PXKt 18 
qQ-R5 ch. 

o~o3 

9P-QR3 

°P-KKt3 

•^nKB— QB4 25 

10p_QKt4 
BXKt 

1"R— Ktsq. 
QB— KKts 

^l^P K6, 26 
y,QKt— K4 27 

HBXB 

*-*Q— Q3 19 

R-Q sq. 

JjKtXB 

l"BxKt 6 

B— QB4 I) 

-K-Rsq. 

I3p^t3 

luKKt O2 20 

jiBxQ and wins. 

— luB— Kt3 
-7 .QB— KKts 

Ujct— Kt3 

4 rP-KR4 

**Resigns. 

Game 1— Cont'd. 

-^14o Kt3 28 
— RXP 29 

lOR-Ksq. 
1fiP R5 

^iJKt Q2 
** QxKtch.SOD 

17Kt-Q4 

\IJ ^ 

I'P— Kt5 7 
1RQXP 8 

1 / and White 
mates in three 
more moves. 

1 °R— Ktsq. 

1QQ~R4 

— -, 
— 1 

i 

— -J 

iOKt— B6 9 
Kt-Kl3 10 

20o— K2 

71B-Q3 

fliR-Kt3 
P B3 11 

U U T? V *• 

fiaKR— Kt sq. 
B B2 

q.Q-K4 14 

91 

U IR KtRrh 15 1) 

flOQ-K7 

KR B sn 

n?KXR 16 

f)A 

0 £i Q Kt4 ch 

MB— Kt4 ch. 
K Kt sn 

np^ Jvt sq. 

SxB 

fcUKt— Q;ch. 
npRxKt 

.rK— Bsq- 

R Q sq 

U 0 P T? A 

U / T? vTCt 1 2 

l\.p\JVt JL^u 

nnBXR 

noR— ^2 

OOp RS 

9flB-B2 13 

And after some 
moves White re- 
signed. 

«WRXP ch. 

Game 4. 

Lowenthal. 

BARNES 
MORPHV. 

rKt— B; 31 

>B-K33 

1P— OS 

.QB— KKts 

'Q— B4 

J_ ^ i B— B4 

Kt— B3 33 
t— By 34 

_, nR— KB sq. 

t-B3 
,P— KB3 35 

37 

38 I) 

.39 
40 

PXQ 

p- Q7ch. 

~-01K-B sq. 

Ksq. 

41 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. I55 

Winawer v. Blackburne. 

1. Game i.— A defence recommended by Janish, but no more satisfactory than others in this opening, 
especially if White reply as in the text. 

Game I.— We prefer here KtxP which by transposition of moves leads to a position given in Col. 19. 

3. Game i. — We do not think this as good as 6 B — K3. 

4. Game i.— 6 P— KR3 was a good move now, as it attacked a hostile piece which had either to 

retreat at cost of time or else to be exchanged at disadvantage in value. 

5. Game i. — Useless; and as will be seen, it gets him into difficulty later on. 

6. Game i.— In allowing the opponent to fix his P at Q5 Black's QBP becomes weak. We would have 

preferred R— QKt sq. 

7. Game I. — This gives Black a spirited attack, but we very much doubt whether that was worth a P 

by best play on the other side. 

8. Game i . — PX? was vastly superior. It Black replied P— QR4 with the intention of playing P — QB4 

should White capture that P all difficulties could be avoided by the reply P — Kt5 with the superior 
game. 

9. Game i. — A beautiful move that gives Black a strong attack at least for a time. 

10. Game i.— Best. If, for instance, 20 KtxKt, 20 BxP ch.; 21 K— Q2l, 21 Q— 63; 22 Q— 64, 22 Q 

XKt; 23 B— K.2, 23 RxB ch.; 24 QxR, 24 Q— B6 mate. 

11. Game i. — This weak move greatly compromises his game which we "believe might have turned in 

his favor still by patient play. 22 K — Kt sq. was evidently better, for Black could not then double his 
Rooks, as White would answer Q — K4. 

12. Game i. — Black pursues the attack in excellent style. 

13. Game i.— Of course if PxB Black would answer QxR ch. 

14. Game i. — Overlooking the adversary's most ingenious coup, but he had no good move. If 31 R — 
Q.3> 31 Q— K8 ch. ; 32 B— Q sq., 32 QXP; 33 B— B2, 33 Q— K8 ch. ; coup, 34 B— Q sq., 34 B— KB3 
threatening B — Kt4 ch., with a winning attack. 

15. Game i.— A beautiful and elegant stroke. See Diagram. 

16. Game i.— Clearly if BxR Black mates by Q— Kt;. But even as it is White has little left to fight 
with, and Black's Queen wins easily against the two pieces. 

Steinitz v. Rainer. 

17. Game 2.— 6 QKt— 63 at once reduces the option of Black to 6 P— QB3 or 6 KB — QKt$ and both 

are unfavorable for the defence. Compare Col. 24. 

18. Game 2.— 8 BxP was no doubt better, but as shown in our Col. 24, White also obtains the 

advantage in that case. 

19. Game 2.— If II Kt— Kt5; 12 Q— 64 and wins. Orifn Q— Kt3; 12 O— O— O+. 

20. Game 2.— Of course if QxQ White mates by R— Q8. 

Goldsmith v. Esling. 

21. Game 3. — This hazardous move was greatly favored by Morphy. The only correct play is K 
Kt— R3. 

22. Game 3r — We prefer 6 KtxKP if only for its simplicity, as it gives White a plain advantage in a 
few moves. The line of play here initiated is most ingeniously pursued in the present game by 
White, but we think that Black's defence could be so much improved as to make the issue uncertain. 
Compare our comments on Black's gth move. 

23. Game 3.— If 7. . . .P— K6; 8 BxP, 8 BxB; 9 Q— RS ch.,9P— Kt3; loQ— 63+, for if 10. . . .QxKt, 
White mates in two moves. 

(Continued on page /J/.) 

I56 

PIIILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

GAME No. I. 

Move 31 R— KtSch. 

BLACK — BLACKBURNE. 

GAME No. 2. 

Move 13. B — QB4. 

BLACK — RAINER. 

WHITE— WINAWER 

WHITE — STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 3. 

Move 1 6. QxKt ch. 

BLACK— ESLING. 

GAME No. 4. 

Move 15 BxP- 

BLACK— MORPHY. 

*•' 

• • 

WHITE— GOLDSMITH. 

WHITE— BARNES. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 159 

Bird v. Morphy. 

42. Game 5. — Certainly dangerous and much inferior to PxQP. Compare Columns 20 and 21. 

43. Game 5. — White could have here instituted Zukertort's winning attack by 6 KtXP. Compare 
Col. 20. 

44. Game 5. — We much prefer the more defensive 8. . . .B — K2. 

45. Game 5. — Much safer was Q — K2 or Kt— B3. 

46. Game 5. — Lowenthal justly condemns this move as a blunder. The loss of a P could not be avoided 
excepting by giving up two pieces for a R, but the latter course presented more prospects of ob- 
taining an equivalent in material with a good position s. g.^ n KtxKt ch., II PxKt; 12 Bxl', 
12 RXB; 13 Q — Kt5 ch., 13 R— Kt3; 14 KtXR, 14 P or QXKt; 15 t)XP ch. with two Pawns and 
a R for two minor pieces and a good game. 

47. Game 5. — KtxKt would have forced the position that actually occurred, whereas the play in the text 
subjected Black to unnecessary complications 

48. Game 5. — Lowenthal suggests here 12 KtxKtP which we believe was his best course and might have 

led to the following continuation 12 KxKt; 13 KtxKt, 13 BxKt; 14 KR — Kt sq., 14 QB — 

KB4; 15 B— R6ch., 15 K— 63; 16 Q— Kt5 ch., 16 K— K3; 17 BxR, &c. 

49. We should have preferred 13 P— QB4; for if 14 PxP, 14 BxKt; 15 QxP ch., 15 Q— B2, 

threatening QxP ch., and wins. 

50. Game 5. — P — QB3 first would have been a good precautionary measure. 

51. Game 5. —Black is a Pawn ahead with an excellent game, for in the long run the adverse KBP ought 
to fall too. But the impetuous ingenuity of Morphy who was merely a youth during his brilliant 
Chess career apparently could not resist the temptation of risking a brilliant sacrifice for an attack 
which no doubt it required great skill and foresight to repel. 

52. Game 5. — This seems the natural move but White loses atonce all chance of victory as Black can force 

a draw at least. Much better was undoubtedly 19 Q — Kt5, for if 19 P— K6; 20 Q— Q8 ch., 20 K — 

B2; 21 QxP ch., 21 B -Q2; 22 B— R5 ch. (it is necessary to get this B away from his present post 

as he blocks the exit of the White K, and if QxR, White answers QxRB), 22 P— Kt3; 23 Q 

XB ch., 23 K— Kt sq, (if 23 . . . .K— B sq. ; 24 QxB ch., followed by B— Kt3 should win); 24 Q— 
K6 ch., 24K— Kt2; 25 Q— K.5 ch., 25 K— Ktsq.; 26 QxKP and wins, not however Q—K8ch., on 
accountof 26....RxQ,27PxQ,27BxPch.; 28 K— Kt sq., 28 R— Kt sq. ch. with at least a draw 
and good winning prospects. It is also obvious that if 19. . . .QxKtP ch., 20 K — Q2, 20 B — Kt5 
ch. ; 21 K— K3, 21 Q— B6 ch. ; 22 B — Q3 and ought to win. 

53. Game 5.— Lowenthal rightly points out here that White could have drawn by K — B sq. at this point. 

54. Game 5. — Again White could draw by K — R2 as suggested by Lowenthal. 

55. Game 5. — A beautiful masterstroke which forces the game in a few moves. 

Morphy v. Duke of Brunswick and Count Isouard, Consulting. 

Game 6. — As pointed out in our analysis this is not a good defence. 

Game 6.— And this is worse. No doubt Black has already a little the inferior game but Q— 63 or 

Q — Cj2 were the best defensive continuations. 

Game 6. -White is not satisfied with winning a P and the tedious game that would have resulted after 

8 QXP, 8 Q — Kt5 ch., &c. The position fully justifies White to play for higher game which wasmore 

in the grand master's style. 

Game 6.— Just what White was playing for. Q— B2 was their best. 
Game 6. — The first link in a chain of a most beautiful combination. 
Game 6. — All powerful and exact. 
Game 6. — A very fine finish to a most elegant game. 

Morphy v. Harnvitz. 

Game 7. — This move was first adopted by Lowenthal against Harrwitz, and Morphy subsequently 

favored it for the attack almost invariably. 

Game 7.— In another game between the same players Harrwitz played here 7 Kt— 63 which is 

by far superior to the move in the text. 7 B— K2 is also much preferable. Compare Table 3, Cols. 

13, 14 and 15. The move in the text shuts up Black's B and leaves a hole in his centre. 
Game 7.— Not as good as B— K3 which keeps the B in communication with botli wings and besides 

gains a move for the purpose of advancing P— KB4 later on as Black cannot attack him by P— KKt4. 
Game 7.— The Q is only in the way of the B at this post. Much better is B— K2 reserving the re- 

treat of B— Q2 eventually. 

Game 7. Very weak. K— R sq. followed by Kt— B2 or vice versa were by far better, especially as 
he intended to enter with his Kt at K4 later on and the way chosen for his Kt viz. : via Kt5, subjects 
him to attack and loss of time. 

(Continued on page ibt) 

i6o 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

GAME No. 5. 

Move 1 8 Q (from KR6)— QR6. 

BLACK— MORPHY. 

mrrm 

i 

GAME No. 6. 

Move i6....Q-Kt8ch. 

BLACK — DUKE OF BRUNSWICK & COUNT ISOUARD, 
CONSULTING. 

m M*riMBi 

•'////////, VS/////// , W/W// v///////,\ 

m 

11 B 

WHITE— BIRD. 

WHITE — MORPHY. 

GAME No. 7. 

Move 30. P— 65. 

BLACK— HARRWITZ. 

v^B 

ifc 

WHI FE— MORPHY. 

GAME No. 8. 

Move 25. RxP ch. 

BLACK — BAUCHER. 

WHITE — MORPHY. 
Playing 8 games blindfold. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 161 

(Continued from page 159) 

Game 7.— The correct move and much stronger than 13 P— K$ on account of 13 O — 64- 14 

P— K6, 14 KR-B sq.; 15 KR— K sq., 15 BxKt; 16 PxB, I6P-B3 + . 

Game 7. — Weak and creating another hole at the tender point of KB4 where White's Kt later on 

obtains command of the position with his Kt. 

Game 7. — Decidedly bad policy if only on the ground that it allows the opponent to fix his Kt at a good 

post with gain of time. The R is of no use on the Kt file and White is quite safe in allowing it to be 

broken open. Much better was Q — K sq. with the view of retreating B — Q2. 

Game 7. — Showing fine strategical genius. In spite of the preparations of the opponent on the King's 

side, White proceeds with his own attack, well foreseeing that the adversary can do no harm 

on the open KKt file. 

Game 7. — R — K sq. was preferable as it might eventually enable him to advance P — Q4. 

Game 7.— Useless, as Black might have answered 23 Q— Q2 which would compel the Kt to go 

back again whence he came. 

Game 7.— An error of judgment that costs a P and moreover practically cuts off his Q from the other 

wing where she is really wanted. 

Game 7. — High class play. This waiting move secures him the advantage, whereas after 24 KtX 

BP, 24 R— B sq. ; Black evidently recovers the P. 

Game 7. — Probably a miscalculation but even after the only other alternative 24. . . .BxKt; 25 QxB, 

25 QR— Kt sq. (or 25 P— Kt3 ; 26 Q— Q7, etc.) ; 26 Q— R5 White had much the best of the game. 

Game 7. — He could not play 27. .. .QxP on account of the following continuation pointed out by 
Lowenthal: 28 RxP ch., 28 KxR; 29 Q— RS ch., 29 B— RS; 30 KtxB, 30 RXKt! ; 31 Q— 65 
ch., followed by QXR- 

Game 7.— Certainly superior to R — B2 followed by KR — 63. 

Game 7. — With the view of releasing himself by B — Q sq., which he could not attempt at once as 
White could answer KtX? followed by QxP ch. But he overlooks the opponent's ingenious winning 
manoeuvre. He had still a good fight left for a draw by P — Kt3, for if White played P — QKt4 ki 
reply then Black could again retreat B— B sq. and wait patiently until White's Q side attack exhausted 
itself as his own K side was secure enough. 
Game 7. — A very beautiful initiation of a brillianty?«0/<?. 
Game 7. — White now forces the game with a few masterstrokes. 

Morphy v. Baucher. 

82. Game 8. — B — Q2 is by far preferable. 

83. Game 8. — Still less justifiable than in the previous game where this move occurs at an earlier stage. 
By a transposition of moves the position has become almost identical with that of the preceding 
one, the sole difference being that Black's King has moved into the corner which practically 
amounts to the loss of an additional move. The R will not be of the slightest use at B2 and will 
have to be removed again. Kt — B2 was by far better. 

84. Game 8. — With some remote aim at a King's side attack by P — KKt3, but certainly not as solid as 
R — K sq. with the view of bearing ultimately on White's weak centre P. The R as will be seen is 
subsequently much in the way of Black's King and the mating positions which arise are chiefly due 
to the bad selection of the post for the R at this juncture. 

85. Game 8. — A waiting move of some utility as it provides against any diversion on the Queen's side by 
P — QKt4. But we believe in the main it would have been preferable to proceed with the King's 
side attack at once by R— 63 or else to play Kt — Q5, followed by PxB in reply to BxKt, with the 
superior game, as White gets rid of his weak centre P and otherwise holds the better position. 

86 . Game 8. — Bad for various reasons. In the first place he ought not to allow a P of his own to be 
placed in front of the adverse weak KP which thus becomes less accessible. Next the hostile B at 
Kt3 prevents the sortie of the opponent's Rooks on the King's side which becomesfatal to him in a 
few moves. The Kt ought to have retreated and would have been undoubtedly better placed at Bz 
whence he could challenge the adverse Kt by Kt — Q sq. eventually. 

87. Game 8. — White though playing 8 games simultaneously blindfolded has entirely outgeneralled his 
present strong opponent for his attack is now quite irresistible. 

88. Game 8. — No doubt an error but there was really nothing to be done. If 21. .. .B — K sq., the 
game might have proceeded: 22 R— RS, 22 P— KKt3; 23 Q— Kt4, 23 PxP; 24RXP ch., 24 KxR; 
25 Q— R3 ch., 25 K— Kt3; 26 PxP ch., 26 K— 62; 27 Q— RS ch., and mates next move. 

89. Game 8.— Threatening RxP ch. followed by Q— RS mate. 

90. Game 8. — Winning a piece by force for he threatens mate by Q or RxP ch. 

91. Game 8.— A lovely continuation especially considering how severely White is handicapped by his 

performance. 

92. Game 8.— The mate is forced after 27 P — Kt3; by 28 R — R3 ch., 28 K — Kt4; 29 R — Kt3 ch., 

29 K— R4; 30 Q— R7 mate. 

THE CONTEST BETWEEN 

MESSRS. STEINITZ AND TSCHIGORIN. 

It would be an unfair disparagement of the reputation of our celebrated antagonis 
in the contest treated in the following pages, if we were to offer any apology for intro 
ducing the series of games played between the author and Mr. Tschigorin at Havana ii 
the beginning of the year 1889. But we may state, that the games of the last champion 
ship match between Messrs. Steinitz and Zukertort played at New York, St. Louis, an< 
New Orleans in 1886 were published shortly after the conclusion of the contest in sepa 
rate collections by two rival German authors and by two different publishers. The au 
thor, therefore, felt justified in entertaining the expectation that the addition of the game 
of the latest contest for the championship with our own analytical comments would forn 
an attractive feature of this volume, more especially as the play of the two opponent 
represents two different schools, which in many respects are almost antagonistic in thei 
respective styles and in their leading views about the general conduct of the game. O 
this subject we reserve some further remarks, and proceed to give a brief history of th 
inauguration of the contest, which we believe will not be out of place. 

In the early part of 1888 Mr. Steinitz visited Havana, in consequence of an invitatioi 
from the hospitable Chess Club of that city to give some Chess exhibitions and to pla; 
matches and off-hand games against the Cuban Champion, Judge Golmayo; the Mexi 
can Champion, Senor Vazquez, Consul General of Mexico; Senores Carvajal, Portce am 
other prominent players. The members of the Havana Chess Club, who are most enthu 
siastic and liberal patrons of the game, made on this occasion the offer to Mr. Steinitz t 
provide the stakes and to defray all the expenses of a match for the championship of th 
world to be held under the auspices of that society against any opponent whom the vis 
itor would accept. Mr. Steinitz accepted the handsome offer on condition that the con 
test should consist of a limited number of games, as he could not be sure whether hi 
various engagements would allow him to stay at Havana for an indefinite time, whicl 
would have been necessary in case many draws occurred. He selected for his opponen 
the Russian master, Mr. Tschigorin with whom he had played on two previous occasions 
The first time in the Vienna International Tournament of 1882 Mr. Steinitz had tied fo 
first and second prizes with Herr Winawer, while Mr. Tschigorin did not secure an 
prize, but in the personal encounter with Mr. Steinitz each won a game. On the secom 
occasion in the London International Tournament of 1883, the two players came close 
together, for Mr. Steinitz won the second prize and Mr. Tschigorin the fourth; but th 
latter won both games in the personal encounter between the two players. Mr. Tschigo 
rin was already universally recognized as a first-class master, but more especially on ac 
count of his style being characterized by the rarest dash and brilliancy of combination ii 
the conduct of the King's side attack as well as by exactitude of calculations in the end 
ing. His selection for the championship contest was warmly approved of by most con 
noisseurs, and the choice of Mr. Steinitz has been since fully verified by the fact that Mr 
Tschigorin tied for chief honors with Herr Max Weiss of Vienna among twenty compel 
itors in the Grand International Tournament of the Sixth American Chess Congress hel< 
in New York in the Spring of 1889. 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 163 

The preliminaries were easily and most amicably settled between the two players by 
correspondence. It was arranged that the contest should be limited to twenty games in- 
cluding draws, and that the winner of the majority should be declared the victor. The 
stakes were fixed at a minimum of $600, but were afterward increased by liberal sub- 
scriptions of the members of the Havana Chess Club to very nearly double that sum. 
The Havana Chess Club also provided for each player fees of $250, free passages from 
and to New York, and prizes of $20 for the winner of each game and $10 for the loser. 
In case of draws each player was to receive $10. In other repects the rules of the cham- 
pionship match between Messrs. Steinitz and Zukertort played in 1886 were adopted, 
and it will hardly be necessary to repeat those rules, excepting to state that the time limit 
was fixed at 1 5 moves per hour. 

The contest duly commenced on January 2Oth, 1889 at Havana, but was brought 
to a close on the 24th of February. Mr. Tschigorin obtained the lead over his opponent 
by one game three times during the contest, namely after the first, the third and the sev- 
enth game. Mr. Steinitz scored one ahead after the fifth game and then again after the 
ninth. He then kept the lead up to the end of the contest, at the finish of the i yth game, 
which resulted in a draw. As the score stood at that time Steinitz 10, Tschigorin 6, the 
additional draw made Steinitz the victor of the contest, for only three more games re- 
mained to be played and Mr. Tschigorin was bound to be one game minus even if he 
won them all. 

It was then arranged that the last three games should be played in consultation be- 
tween Mr. Steinitz and Dr. Gavilan on the one side, against Mr. Tschigorin and Senor 
Ponce on the other side. The result was that each party scored a game and one was 
drawn. It was, however, distinctly stipulated that the Tschigorin party should have the 
move twice (though it would have been the turn of Mr. Steinitz to have the first move if 
the main contest had proceeded), in order to test further the new defence adopted 
throughout the contest by Mr. Steinitz; on the other hand, it was also agreed that the 
Steinitz party should again play the Zukertort opening for the purpose of giving the op- 
ponents an opportunity of trying a new line of play. 

First-class masters when engaged in such serious contests generally select for the at- 
tack and the defence such openings as in their own respective opinions will yield them 
the best prospects of success, and then persist in adopting the same line of play unless 
they become convinced of its unsoundness. Messrs. Steinitz and Tschigorin pursued the 
same plan in their series of games and consequently only the Evans' Gambit and the ir- 
regular debut i Kt — KB3, which is sometimes named the Zukertort Opening, were 
played throughout the contest with the exception of the third game in which Mr. Tschi- 
gorin opened with the Ruy Lopez. But we wish to make some special remarks on the 
new defence adopted by the author in the Evans' Gambit, as it affords striking examples 
of the application of, and the selection between, some of the different maxims laid 
down in our chapter on "The Modern School and the Principles of Play." It may be 
said of the Evans* Gambit that it puts the modern theories to a crucial test, for a Pawn is 
given up on the extreme Queen's wing for a remote attack in the centre and against the 
adverse King. For the ending, the defence ought to have a winning superiority, as ms 
being a Pawn ahead is also greatly strengthened by his having the majority of Pawns far 
away from the hostile King, which invariably has to Castle on the King's side early in 
this opening. But the chief difficulty for the defence is the formation of White's two 
centre Pawns at Q4 and K4, and the powerful ranges which the latter's two Bishops ob- 
tain against Black's King's side after Castling, more especially that of White's QB at Q 

Kt2. 

It was chiefly with the view of obviating those difficulties that the author after the 

i5t STEINITZ-TSCHIGORTN GAMES. 

moves i P— K4, i P— K4; 2 KKt— 63, 2 QKt— 63; 3 B— B4, 3 B— 64; 4 P— QKt4, 4 
BxKtP; 5 P — 63, 5 B — R4; 6 O— O, introduced the move 6. . . .Q — 63 and we now 
propose the following continuation: 7 P — Q4, 7 Kt — R3 (in the games of the contest the 
author played 7. . . .KKt — K2, which on further analytical examination we find to be 
much inferior to the move no^ proposed). There are now several lines of attack, but 
anyhow the most interesting is the one based on Mr. Tschigorin's idea applied in actual 
play against the other defence 7. . . .KKt — K2 namely: 8 P — Q5, 8 Kt — K2; 9 Q — R4, 
9 B— Kt3; loQB— KKts, 10 Q— Q3; n Kt— R3, n P— QB3; 12 QR— Q sq. At this 
juncture Black has to take the choice between retarding his development for a long time 
or allowing two "holes" (compare p. xxxi, chapter on "The Relative Value of Pieces, 
etc.") to be formed in the centre. As will be seen the two holes are more dangerous 
to his game than the block that White will create. If, for instance, 12. .. .P — KB3; 

13 PXP, 13 QXP; 14 Kt— Kts, 14 PXB (or 14 B— 64; 15 B— K3, etc. Or 14 

B— 62; 15 B— Q5, 15 Q— Kt3; 16 B— K3, 16 Q— R4; 17 Kt— Q6 ch., 17 K— B sq.; 
18 QXQ, 18 BXQ; 19 BXP, etc.); 15 KtXKP, 15 Q— B4; 16 Kt— Q6 ch., 16 K— B 
sq.; 17 KtXB (not the tempting 17 QXQP on account of 17. . . .Q — 63!), 17. . . .Qx 
KKt; 1 8 KtXB and wins. The defence has therefore to resort to the line of play that 
actually occurred in the contest in a similar position and the game would continue 1 2 

Q— Kt sq.; 13 BXQKt, 13 KXB; 14 P— Q6 ch., 14 K— B sq.; 15 Q— Kt4. This 

is no doubt much superior to 15 KtXP to which Black would reply 15. .. .B — 64. And 
now Black's pieces are certainly shut out uncomfortably for the present, but our theory 
is that White's QP being too far advanced will require the protection of Queen and 
Rook for some time, and if Black's King can only be guarded against any attacking 
surprises the defence ought gradually to obtain the best of the game with the majority of 
Pawns on the Queen's side and the two Bishops. For that purpose we would advise 
even to give up the Pawn gained and to proceed with 15. . . .B — Q sq. at once, if only 
for the reason that if 1 5. ... P — 63 White might have some good sacrificing opportuni- 
ties by 16 K— R sq., 16 B— Q sq.; 17 KtXP, and if 17 PXKt; 18 P— 64. However, 

after 15. . . .B — Q sq.; 16 KtXP, 16 P — QR4 (not 16. . . .P — QKt4; on account of the 
rejoinder KtXBP, etc.); 17 Q — Kt2 (if 17 Q — 65, 17 Q — R2; and after the exchange of 
Queens Black has the superior game with 3 combined Pawns available for advance on 
the Queen's side, as against 2 separated ones of the opponent, besides that, White's QP 
will be weak), 17 P — QKt4; and we believe that Black ought to be able to extricate 
himself with the superior game. 

In refere ice to the Irregular (Zukertort) Opening which was invariably adopted b 
the author in this contest, we may state that we had never previously tried this debut in 
actual play. But we essayed it on this occasion for the purpose of testing our theory as 
regards the inadvisability of pinning a Knight early in the opening (especially the KKt), 
(compare page xxx) against that of Mr. Tschigorin who was evidently not of the sam 
opinion. For in the celebrated match by telegraph and correspondence which was won 
by St. Petersburg against London in 1888, and in which Mr. Tschigorin was the leade 
for the Russian side, Black (St. Petersburg), in one of the two games of the match, aft 
the moves i KKt — 63, i P — Q4; 2 P — Q4, answered 2. . . .B — Kt5. It was naturall 
to be expected that the Russian master would try the same experiment against th 
author, and we believe that not alone our actual score in this opening, but also th 
most stringent analytical examination of the play on both sides will now verify our view tha 
2. . . .B — Kt5 ought to place the defence at a disadvantage. The fact that Black w 
enabled to double the KBP in no way militated against White's game, and on the co 
trary, at this early stage, before the exchange of Queens, it strengthened White's cen 
for the attack, which was greatly supported by the combination of two Bishops 

STEINITZ-TSCHKioKlX l,AMKS. 165 

White had obtained in the opening. Some very interesting situations favorable to lively 
King's side attacks, occurred for White, notably in the 4th, the 8th and the loth games, 
fin consequence of the Russian master having early attempted to convert the debut, 
which is of a close character, into an open game. In that connection we consider it 
idue to mention with special gratification and thanks that a prize of 300 francs, offered 
[by his Serene Highness Prince Dadian of Mingrelia for the game of the contest which 
he would adjudicate as the most brilliant, was awarded to the author for the 8th game. 

It may also be fairly claimed that the result of the contest affords a strong confirmation 
>f the correctness of our modern theories in general. For Mr. Tschigorin is undoubt- 
lly one of the most skilled and ingenious experts in the King's side attack that ever 
lived, and naturally, therefore, shows in his style a marked preference for the aims and- 
jndencies of the old school. We have already explained our own views on that sub- 
:t as far as possible within the scope of this treatise, and we may only add that in the 
games of this contest, as well as in previous ones against other great masters, we have 
jalways tried to conform with those ideas to the best of our ability for the time, and as 
much as was practicable under peculiar conditions of match play, such as pressureof 
time limit or the difficulty of calculation in original positions in which the judgment 
could not be assisted by previous experience. We now submit to our readers the games 
^with our own, annotations, revised and amended from the International Chess 
Magazine. 

i66 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 

Game 1. 

Evans' Gambit. 

White, 
M. TSCHIGORIN. 

Black, 
W. STEINITZ. 

.P-K4 
lp-K4 
0KKt-B3 

— 

QB-B4 
"B-B4 

B3 

P-B3 

n- 

Og_ 
P- 

B3 

' KKt— K2 
Kt-Kt5 2 

OKt-Qsq. 3 

PxP 

12 
13 
14 

15 

-Q4 5 

BXP 

KtxB 
PxKt 

O— O 
QKt— B3 

KKt 

-K sq. 
Ct-K4 

Q-Kt3 
B-B2 

>— QB3 
.R — K sq. 
B— Q2 
,Kt-B5 8 

19 

20 

OX 

PXP 

KtxB 

KtxP 

lCt— QB3 

PxKt 
R-Kq 

R-Qsq. 

" ' 

-QP 
Q— KS D* 1O 

11 

Game 1— cont'd. 
»RXKt 
OR— R8ch. 
nQxR 

12 

— KR4 

Q— B6 
Q-K3 

'Q— Q8 ch. 
K— 1 

Kt2 

33 

34o_ By ch. 

35o— B3 ch. 

K-Ktsg. 13 
ODp— R5 

PXP 

14 

oq^x?i 

OOQ— R8 

,Q-Kt4 

Q— R8 ch. 
inB-Ktsq. 

WQ=&T 
Jj|Q-R3ch. 

44K-Ktsq. 
. ..Q— B8 ch. 

4 OK— R2 

in 

4b 

in 

Q 

K 

_6ch. 

15 
16 

4 OP— B3 
K— B3 

49p— QKt4 
P— KKt4 

OUQ— Kt2ch. 

^5=52 __ 

Dip— Kts 

Q-KBsch. 
06 K-Ktsq. 

P-Kt5 17 

Q-K6ch. 

rr 

OOQ_QB2Ch. 

rpK-Kt4 
ODp_Kt3 

58 

Q_BSq. ch. 

-R4 

1 Resigns. 
* See Diagram page 168. 

Game 2. 

Irregular Opening. 

White, 
W. STEINITZ. 

Black, 

M. TSCHIGORIN. 
, KKt— B3 

oizw 

"B— Kti 

0Kt— jvb 
«B-R4 
jQ-Q3 18 
*Q— B sq. 19 
--QB4 

r 
D 
C 

°P-K3 

7Kt-B3 

' 

P— KB3 
KKt-B3 

B— Kt3 
QQ-Qsg. 20 
°P-B 

UKt-K2 
R-Bsg. 
llKt— 02 
KKt-R4 

fiP— KB4 
P-KKt4 21 

3- 10Kt-B3 
P-KR3 

KBPXP 22 

23 

BxKt 

iqKtxP_ 
10B-K2 

PXP 

P— K4 
P-Q5 

19 
20Q_Q2 

B— B3 

2lR— Qsq. 

R-R 

25 

26 

PXP 

Q— O 27 

P-Q6 Df28 

Q_K3 29 
Q_Kt3 

flU 

KtxB 

Game 2— cont'd. 
B-Kt4 30 
— Kt3 

33 
34 
35 

R-B8ch. 
K_B2 
R— B7 ch. 
K-B3 
KR-B5ch. 

K— K3 
KR-E7 

RXQ 

ts 

KtP 

RXKKtP 
RxKKtP 

P— KR4 
RXQRP 

___ 
"'RXKt 

I" See Diagram page 168. 

nn 
«JO 

R— Kt; 

R-R6 
Resigns. 

S TI.INITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 167 

Tschigorin v. Steinitz. 

1. Game I. — See our remarks on this move in the introduction of this series of games. 

2. Game i.— Apparently strong, but not as good as the line of play subsequently adopted by Mr. 

Tschigorin, viz.: 8 QB— KKt$, 8 Q— Qs; 9 P— QS- 

3. Game i.— We think the best plan is now to simplify matters by 8 P — KR3; 9 KtxP, 9 R — B sq. ; 

10 KtxKP, 10 KtxKt; u PxKt, u QxP; and though Pawns are even, we much prefer Black's 
game as White's QBP is weak and his QKt has little scope for action. 

4. Game i.— If u P— KS, n Q— QBs;' 12 QKt— RS, 12 Kt— 64; 13 Kt— 63, 13 Kt— KS; with an ex- 

cellent game. 

B. Game i. — Black gives up the P gained in order to break up the adverse centre and in the hope of 
gaining material after castling. However, the bad position of his QKt is a drawback to his game. 

6. Game I. — This premature attack is fully neutralized by the opponent's very clever play. P — QB3 

at once was much better. 

7. Game i. — Defending everything indirectly. Of course Black dare not take both Knights on account 

of the ultimate R — K sq. 

8. Game i. — We believe that Q — QR4 instead was muck stronger and would have made it very difficult 

for Black to release his pieces. 

9. Game i. — A weak move which gets Black into trouble. He could still retain some advantage with 

hopes of winning by 25 s>XP; 26 QxP, 26 Kt — R4, etc. 

LO. Game I . — An excellent rejoinder which gives White anyhow some attacking initiative. See Diagram, 
page 1 66. 

LI. Game i . — An extraordinary blunder. Black overlooked that the check at R8 was guarded by the 

Q. 27 R— R4; 28 BxP, 28 R— Kt4; 29 B — B2, 29 Q — 63 left Black still with a good game in 

which he could easily effect a draw almost at any time. 

12. Game I.— Not a good move. Q to either B sq. instead, followed by P— KR3, and K— R2 would 
have soon secured White's King against all danger of being hunted by checks, and would have 
given freedom to White's Q and B to operate in conjunction with the Pawns on the King's side. 

L3. Game i. — At this stage the game was adjourned, and Mr. Tschigorin sealed the move in the text. 

L4. Game I .—If 38 QxQ; 38 PX? ch. ; 39 KX?, 39 ?XQ; followed by P— KB3 and P— KKt3 drawing 
easily. 

L5. Game I. — Feeble. If anything could be hoped for, P — QKt4 presented the best chance of offering 
resistance. 

16. Game I. — An excellent move which shuts out the adverse Q and prepares White's attacking advance 

of Pawns. 

17. Game I. — White's attack is now obviously irresistible. The latter part of the game has been played 

by Mr. Tschigorin with consummate mastery. 

Steinitz v. Tschigorin. 

Game 2. — In the correspondence match between London and St. Petersburg, the former party 
played here P— KKt4, which is inferior to the move in the text. 

Game 2.— Best. If 4. . . .P— QBs; 5 Q— KRs, 5 KKt— 63; 6 P— KB4, 6 P— KR3 (or 6. . . .QKt— 
Q2; 7 P-KKt4, 7 KtxKt; 8 BPxKt, 8 BxP; 9 Q— KKt3 and wins); 7 P— KKt4 with the supe- 
rior game. 

Game 2. — White is still ahead in the development with one minor piece, albeit his retreats of Kt and Q. 

Game 2. — White has now we believe some advantage in position. 

- *n 

Game 2. — A grave error. Black evidently speculated on White's replying RPxP*, whereupon the 
the reply KtXBP would win. 

(Continued on page i bg .) 

168 

STEINITZ-TSCIIIGORIN GAMES. 

GAME No. I. 

Move 27. Q— K5. 

Page 1 66. 
BLACK — W. STEIN1TZ. 

GAME No. 2. 

Move 24. P— Q6. 

Page 166. 
BLACK — M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE — W. STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 3. 

Move 76. B — B sq. 

Page 1 66. 
BLACK — W. STEINITZ. 

^ 

GAME No. 4. 

Move 1 6. Kt— Kt5. 

Page 170. 
BLACK — M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE— W. STEINITZ. 

S I l.INITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMI S. 169 

(Continued fro m page ibf.) 

Game 2.— If 16 QKtxQKt; the reply 17 KtxKt wins a piece, for after 17 KtxQ; 18 KtxQ, 

Black's B remains attacked. 

Game 2. — Simply QxP was much stronger. He now becomes exposed to a strong attack in turn. \ 

Game 2.— Perhaps good enough, but probably 21 Kt— 63, 21 B— Kt$; 22 P— K4, 22 BxKt; 23 RX 

B, would have won with less difficulty. 

Game 2. — Black may now win the QP, but will lose another with the much inferior game. 

Game 2. — Disastrous. But he could not hold out for long by adopting the other alternative 23. . . .Q 

XP; 24 QXQ, 24 RXQ; 25 P— KB4, for if 25 B— 63; 26 PxP, and Black dare not take either 

with the Kt or the B, as White after exchanging would ultimately gain a piece by R — B8 ch. 

Game 2. — Decisive. See Diagram, page 168. 

Game 2.— Some bystanders afterward thought that 24 Kt — R5; threatening Kt — Kt 7ch., would 

have turned the game in Black's favor, and no doubt it gives the defence a strong counter-attack in 
all variations, excepting against the ingenious reply 25 K — B sq. , pointed ont by Senor Lopez Tfith 

the probable continuation: 25 Kt— B6; 26 PxB, 26 QxQ ch. (or 26 QxKtP; 27 PxKR 

ch., 27 RXR; 28 Q— Q5 ch., 28 K— R sq.; 29 R— R sq., etc.); 27 RxQ, 27 RxR ch.; 28 K— K2> 
and wins. 

Game 2. — White wins without much eftort. 

Tschigorin v. Steinitz. 

31. Game 3. — It would have been better to wait with this move until White played Kt — Q5, and to cas- 

tle first. 

32. Game 3. — The more defensive Q — K2 was probably better. 

33. Game 3.— Threatening KtxBP. 

34. Game 3. — Black could have won the Queen here temporarily for only two minor pieces, but his 
game would have been so much disorganized as to become indefensible, e. g, 17 BxKt, 17 PxB; 18 

BXP, 18 BxB (if 19 KtxP, 19 Q— Kt3 ch, ; 20 K— R2, 20 BxB and wins); 19 Kt— 65; 20 Q 

XKt,! (if 20 K—R2, 20 Q—R4 and though White may now capture the Kt, and afterward take 
the R with the B, Black will be able to make a better fight than in the line of play we propose), 
20 PXQ; 21 BxR, 21 QXB; 22 KtxP, threatening Kt— K6, 22 Kt— Kt3; 23 KtxR, fol- 
lowed by R — Q2 and doubling Rooks with an easily won game. 

35. Game 3.— An error which costs the exchange. Black might have obtained a defensible game 

by 20 QXQ; 21 BxQ (if 21 PxQ, 21 BxKt; 22 PxB, 22 KtxP and should win), 21. 1 . .P— 

B3 (not 21 ... .BxKt; for as Mr. Tschigorin rightly points out White would then obtain the advan- 
tage by 22 PxB, 22 KtxP; 23 R— QB sq., etc.); 22 BxKt, 22 PxKt; 23 B— Q5, 23 B— QB3; etc. 

36. Game 3. — We believe P — R$ was better, as White had then the option of advancing the RP further 
and trying to get up an attack against the adverse QRP, or else he could exchange Pawns at a 
convenient time and open the QR file for his R. 

37. Game. 3.— If P— KKt4 White would have answered P— KR4, followed soon by R — KR sq. after 
removing the King. 

38. Game 3.— White plays with consummate mastery. 

39. Game 3. —There was nothing better. If P— Kt4ch., White after retreating the K would have 
played R—K sq., followed by withdrawing the other R and R—K6. Black's R could not then 
oppose at K sq. on account of the rejoinder RxKt ch. 

40. Game 3. — Loss of time. The King had to make his exit on the Queen's side later on, and it was 

much better to enter on that retreat at once. 

41. Game 3. — A profound move. White perceives the exigencies of the position with an acumen that 

hardly finds its equal in any ending previously played over the board. It is impossible to enter in 

(Continued on page if i.) 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 

Game 3. 

Ruy Lopez. 

White, 
M. Tschigorin. 

Black, 
W. Steinitz. 

jP-K4 
IP— K4 
nKKt-B3 
"QKt— B3 

B— Q2 
PXP 

O-0 

7Kt-B3_ 
' KKt— K2 
pB-KKts 

OP^ — 

-B3 
-K 

"O— O 

B— QB4 ch. 

1 UK— Rsq. 
. QKt-Kt5 
llKt— QBsq. 

14 

'Q— K sq. 32 

QR-Q sq.33 

'QB-KKt5 
B-K2 

QKt— Q sq. 

^"B— KR4 

B~ 

w^i: 

10Q-QB3 
1QB-QB4 

10B-Ksq. 

JO^*4 

B— K2 34 

Q-Q5 

35 

n 

BxKt 
QXQ 

BxQ 
KtxQBP 

26 

PXB 

P-QKt3 

Game 3-confd. 
,nKR-Qsq. 

nK— Kt2 36 

-QR4 

— Q 
-B2 

37 

33 
35 

K-B3 

P-KR3 

39 

R-K5ch. 
OOK-Bsq. 40 

OOK— K2 

R-KSch. 

4liK: 

-Q2 

ch. 

irP-Kt3 
40B~^ 

41 

K-Kt2 

42 

49 

B-K6 

B— QB4 
B-Qsch. 

Kt— KB4 
B-QB4ch. 

B-QKts 

K— R2 [43 

UUB_Q3 ch. 

K-Kt2_ 
« / R— Kt5 ch. 

K-Bsq. 

dUKt— Kt6ch. 
See Diagram page 168. 

Game 3— cont'd. 
K-B2 

p_R5 
R— KR6 

44 

,K— Kt2 

}R -QB6 ch. 
'K— Kt2 

R-KB 

sq. 

64 

K-B 

sq. 

B_Qsq 

R-K 

R2 45 

Kt-Ks 
R-KK 

6/kt— QB4 
nnQR-KR3 

B— KB3 
R-KR7 

sq. 

79R-KtCt7 
/"K— Ktsq. 

I7QR(B3)-E746 

/OR_Q3 

•J^_ "D ^ 

nf-^7 

/ OR— 07 

48 

R -B3 
K— Kt 

7qt?i_ 

/ORxBch. 

49 

PxR 

0 UK— Esq. 

R1^55 

OlKt— B4 
R_B6ch. 

0"K— Ktsq. 

nnR~~R8 

0 u Resigns. 5O 
f See Diagram page 168. 

Game 4. 

Irregular Opening. 

White, 
W. Steinitz. 
Black, 
M. Tschigorin. 

K Kt— KB3 

Game 5. 

Evans Gambit. 

White, 
M. Tschigorin. 
Black, 
\V. Steinitz. 

.P-K4 

lp-Q4 
nP~Q4 

I?— K4 
KKt-B3 

*B-Kt5 
pP— B4 51 

B-QB4 

"BxKt 
jKtPxB 52 

"B— QB4 
P-QKt4 

4P-K3 

rPXP 

"VxP 53 

fiP-K4 

B— R4 

e°~° 

°B— Kts ch. 
7Kt-B3 

•O— OR4 54 

BB-Q2 

'KKt— K2 

°QKt-B3 55 

qP-Q5 

Qg_Q3 62 
gQ-Qkt3 

°PXP 

10P~QR3 

1f]R-Qsq. 

iiB-Qs 56 

1UB— QKt3 63 
UPXP 

1J-O— O— O 57 
J0PXB 

Q— KKt3 
Q_ QR3 64 

, nQXKt 58 

R — K sq. 
, nQKt-Q2 

< J-^- — ^2 

10p_Q3 

-R—QKt sq. 

. pB— KB4 

Kt— QKts Df 

1IjB-gB4 

1RQ-QBsq. 

lDr)_R3 59 
jyQxP 

10B— KKt5 
1 7B-KKt3 

pR-QB s3q. 

l/QR_Qsq. 

1RP-KR3 65 

10Kt— KR3 60 
, nQXKKtP 

10BxKt 66 
j nKtxB 

QXBPch. 

9nKxRsq. 

RXQ ch. 

dU0=Kt^ 67 

ilK— Ktsq. 

^Q-B3 69 

""Resigns. 61 
4. See Diagram page 

u "Kt — KKt3 

23oKt-K4 
niR— K.B3 70 

nrBxBPch. 

u 0 O X B 
npPXKt 

^UQ_QB5 71 
0 ^Resigns. 

Li 

172. 

STEINITZ- TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 171 

( Ccntimud from page 

an extensive analysis, and we can only point out that if White had stuck to his KBP and given up 
the QKtP for it, Black could well give up ultimately the B for the advancing P, but would in the 
meanwhile direct the attack with R and Kt against White's sole remaining QRP with almost a cer- 
tain draw and even some prospects of winning. 

42. Game 3. — Of course if RxB White would answer RxKt ch. 

43. Game 3. — The manoeuvre that follows shuts up White's R for some time, but it is not satisfactory in 
the end. Black had more chance of a draw by 54 ____ R— B; ch. ; 55 K— R3, 55 B— Q3; 56 R— B 
2, 56 R— 64 (if 56 ____ RXR; 57 R— 63 ch., etc.); 57 R— 63 ch., 57 6—64; and we believe Black 
ought to obtain a draw by a series of checks, or would win the KtP, which would, of course, also 
secure a draw at least. 

44. Game 3 — A beautiful move which compels Black ultimately to abandon his attack against the King 
as he is bound to protect his RP with his B. 

45. Game 3. — The co-operation of his R with the other is now secured in a few moves, and White is 
bound to win, especially as he holds Black's King tight in the last row. 

46. Game 3. — At this stage the game was adjourned till next day, White having sealed the move in 

the text. 

47. Game 3.— See Diagram page 168. White threatens to bring the B— Kt2, followed by R— QRy. 

48. Game 3. — The only correct answer. If R — Kt7 ch., Black plays KB sq., followed by Kt — B2, 
which shuts out the R and must ultimately win the exchange by K — Kt sq. 

49. Game 3.— The rest tells its own tale. 

50. Game 3. — For if Kt— Kt2, White answers 

Steinitz v. Tschigorin. 

51. Game 4. — We consider this not alone quite sound, but probably the best answer against Black's 

early sally with the QB which is premature and altogether unadvisable on generai principles, as this 
piece is much wanted for the protection of the Q side in this opening. 

52. Game 4.— The P cannot well be taken as it cannot be defended, and White obtains, therefore, a 

strong centre. If, for instance, 4 PxP; 5 P— K3, 5 P— QKt4 (or 5 P— K4; 6 BxP, 6 Q— 

Q3; 7?XP with an excellent game. Compare second consultation game, page 194)56 P— QR4, 6 P 
— QB3; 7 PXP, 7 PXP; 8 P— QKt3 with much the best of the game. 

53. Game 4.— Injudicious, as White gains much time in forming his centre by his reply. PxP was the 
only correct answer. 

54. Game 4.— Under the circumstances Q— KR4 was no doubt much better. 

55. Game 4.— Mr. Tschigorin Informs us that this was the result of a miscalculation. He had foreseen 

all the subsequent moves on both sides up to White's I4th, but he had overlooked in his forecast 
that White's KR would then remain defended by the Q. 

56. Game 4.— Of course, if PxB at once, Black replies QxR followed by Kt— 67 ch. 

57. Game 4. -If 11 . . . .PxP; 12 BxP, 12 Q-K4; 13 PXB, 13 P-KB4; 14 R-R5, 14 Q_K3 (or 14 

. . . .P— QKt4; 15 KtXP, 15 PXB; if 15. . . .KtXKt; 16 6—63 and wins); 16 6—63, 16 KtxPch.; 
17 QXKt and wins. 

58. Game 4. -Better than 13 K-K2, 13 Kt-Qs ch. ; 14 K-B sq., 14 QxP;i5 KtXP (or 15 Kt-Kt5), 

!5....Q-Kt6;i6B— QB3, i6QxQch.; I7RXQ, i7Kt— K3 and Black with two Pawns for 
the piece may make a long fight after the exchange of Queens, whereas the play in the text 
ensures White an irresistible attack against the adverse King, albeit Black has three Pawns for 
the exchange. 

59. Game 4.-If 16. . . .Q— R7; 17 Q— B4, 17 R-Q2; 18 R— QB sq., 18 P-QB3; 19 Kt-Q6 ch. and 

wins. 

( Continued on page 173.) 

172 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 

GAME No. 5. 

Move 21. R— Q3. 

Page 170. 
BLACK— W. STEINITZ. 

• *• «,*«* 

GAME No. 6. 

Move 35. BxP. 

Page 174. 
BLACK— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

' VM « / r///////s, '" 7. 

«. /// 

WHITE — M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE — W. STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 7. 

Move 31. KtxP. 

Page 174. 
BLACK— W. STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 8. 

Move 33. RxP. 

Page 174. 
BLACK— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE— W. STEINITZ. 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 173 

( Continued from page if i.) 

60. Game 4.— The following fine termination might have occurred in reply to 18 P— QB3; namely: 

19 QB— KB4, 19 R— Q2 (or 19 Kt— RS; 20 RxP ch., 20 PxR; 21 KtxP ch. and wins); 20 Q 

— K8 ch., 20 R — Q sq.; 21 KtxP ch., 21 QxKt, 22 RxP ch. and mates in two more moves. 

61. Game 4. — White threatens mate in three moves, and there is no defence excepting R — Q2, which, of 

course, is as much as abandoning the game. 

Tschigorin v. Steinitz. 

62 Game 5.— This is forced. For if 8 Q— Ktj; 9 BxKt, 9 KxB (or 9 KtxB; 10 KtxP and 

wins) ; 10 P — Q5 with a fine atiack. 

63. Game 5. — Black might have kept the superiority of Pawns by exchanging QP, but obviously White 
would then have forced a centre similar to the one usually obtained in other variations of this open- 
ing, and all the stronger in the present situation, as Black's Q was badly placed. The move in the 
text releases the defence. 

64. Game 5. — Preventing the development of the adverse QP, but only for a little time. 

65. Game 5. — White's position was already much inferior. If, for instance, 18 B — K2 Black could in- 
stitute a vehement attack by the answer 18. . . .P — Q4. The move in the text was, however a fear- 
ful error which cost a clear piece. 

66. Game 5.— Black could also answer 18 QBxRP; and if 19 K— R2, e. g. KBX? winning easily, 

but of course the play actually adopted is more than sufficient. 

67. Game 5.— If Q or BxP, White could still hope for some attack by the reply R— KB sq., followed 
by Kt— Kt5. 

68. Game 5. — See Diagram page 172. 

69. Game 5.— If 21 ... .QxKP; 22 BxP ch., and obviously Black dare not take the B on account of the 
winning rejoinder Kt — Kt5 ch. 

70. Game 5. — Desperate, but White's game was beyond recovery. 

71. Game 5. — Black had sufficient forces to win, even after 26 Q— KB5; 27 Q — Q$ ch., 27 K — R 

sq. (if 27 K— B sq. ; White might still harrass him by 28 R— KKt sq.); 28 Kt— 67 ch., 28 Qx 

Kt; 29 QxQ, 29 R — KB sq.; with three pieces for the Q and an irresistible attack. But of course 
the move in the text was the simplest and surest. 

Steinitz v. Tschigorin. 

72. Game 6.— This is not as good as P — K3. 

73. Game 6. — A counter gambit which already occurs in similar positions in the games between Labour- 
donnais and MacDonnell. 

74. Game 6. — Black wisely refrains from castling on the Queen's side, as his King is wanted on the 
other wing for the protection of the KP. 

75. Game 6. — A lost move, as the sequel shows. 

76.— Game 6. —If ii PxP, 11 Kt— Kt3; 12 BxP, 12 KKtxBP; 13 RxBP, 13 KtxKP; 14 RxKt (if 

14 RXBP, 14 BxP with a strong attack), 14 KtxB; 15 K— 62, 15 KR— KKt sq.; 16 P— Kt3, 

16 B— Qs; 17 B— 63, 17 BxB; 18 KxB best, for if KtxB fhe reply R— Q7 ch. is fatal, 18 . . .Kt 
— K4 and Black, though a P behind, has an irresistible attack. 

77. Game 6. — This leads to a general exchange of minor pieces which releases Black from the greatest 

part of his difficulties, whereas KB— 63 instead would have kept the attack well in hand. If Black 

answer 16 castles; then White could well proceed with 17 KtxB, 17 RPxKt; 17 P— K6, with 

a strong attack. 

78. Game 6. — 111- conceived. K— 62 was far better. 

( Continued on page 175. ) 

174 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 

Game 6. 

Irregular Opening. 

White, 

W. STEINITZ. 
Black, 

M. TSCHIGORIN. 

. KKt-B3 

lp_Q4 

op-Q4 

-Kt5 
-QB4 

KtPxB 

P-K4 

72 

P-K4 73 
PXP 

KXQ 

'QKt-B3 
np— B4 

OR— Q sq. ch. 
QB-Q2 [74 

OB— B4 

10 

R— Kt sg. 75 
KKt-K2 
BXP 76 

K-B sq. 

B— Kts 
Kt-B3 

15* 

Kt— KB6 
KtxB 77 

Game 6— cont'd. 

Game 7, 

Evans Gambit. 

White, 
M. Tschigorin. 

Black, 
W. Steinitz. 

— K4 
KKt-B3 

2*^1— 
QKt— B3 

»l 

B4 

P-QKt4 

Castles 

Q-B3 

P-4 

KKt— K.2 

QB-Kt5 
00— ( 

Q-Q3 

P- 

Q5 

OKt— Q sq. 

inQ-^ 
1 UB— Kt3 

Kt-R3 

86 

ll£r 

Kt3 

KB3 

B3 87 

. fiP-Q6 ch. 

1 OK— Esq. 

88 

, 0RXR ch. 
lOV 

Pto4___ 

" 0 P— R4 8O L ' P— KR3 89 

KXR 

PXP 

9O 

-K] 

K-Q2 78Q<R-KB5 82 finQR-Q sq. 91 

92 
93 

22 

t— Kt3 

«n 
"" 

K-B5 84 Kt-B2 

,PXR 

K-K2 
R— KKt sq. 

R— £7 ch. 

'P— R6 
,B-R4 

a IK— Kt2 

QKt-Q4 

*fiQ-Kt3 
nnQ-Kt4 

P-B4 

flo 

P_Kt4 

35 

P— R 
BXP 

85D* Kt-B5ch. 

e.p. 
npKtXKtP 
95UUR_R3 

PXB 

ajR-R6ch. 

2e^Q4 

27 

P— R8 (Q) 
P-Kt8(Q) 

25 

K-B sq. 
QxKtP 

R— QKt5 

3'Q— QBSch. 
nn Resigns. 

P— R5 

Game 8. 

Irregular Opening. 

White, 
W. Stemitz. 

Black, 
M. Tschigorin. 

.KKt-B3 
AKKt— B3 
nP-Q4 

nP-QB4 

"P-K3 

,QKt-B3 

Kt— Q2 

astles 

Castles 
qP-K4 

°PXKP 

lU 

KtxKt 
BxKt 

p_KR3 100 

,,2=2! _ 

llR— Ksq. 1O1 
. R-Ksq. 
i^Q__B3 1O2 
B-Q2__ 
l«JKt— Esq. 

B-B3 

15 

IPS 

B— Kt sq. 

1RP-Q5 

IUQ_Q Sq. 104 

1 ' P— OKt3 28 

40P-QKt4 

Game 8-conf d. 
R-K2 lia 

KR-QKtgqlll 
R— Kt2 112 

J-B3 

on^- 

1O5 " °Q— R2 

B— 65 

106 

, 
P-QR3 

:— £2 

gR 

lO7nnQ-KKt4 
""^ 

,PXBP 

'B— R2 

33 

Kt— 65 

RXP 

'BXP 

•K— Ksq. 

,PxKt 

atKt— K3 
nrQ~K4 
uOKt— Esq. 
RQ-B4ch. 

"OKt— K 

0p_ KKt4 
nrB— Kt6ch. 

0 OK— 

Esq. 114 

_R2 

--B5ch 

Kt-B5 

uu fl'R— R4 U1* Resigns. 

* See Diagram page 172. t See Diagram page 172. 

rmB-Ktl 
98 " / O— 

U ' K— Kt sq. 
109QQP-Q7 
UOi 

Q— Kt3 "U Resigns, 

t See Diagram page 172. 

STEINITZ-TSCIIIGORIN GAMES. 175 

(Continued from page if j.J 

79. Game 6.— A grave error. As pointed out by Senor Vazquez, he could at least draw by 25 R— KB 

sq., 25 Kt— K4; 26 R— 65, 26 R— K6 ch., best (if 36 K— Q3; 27 RxKt and wins; or if 26 

....Kt— Ktsch.; 27 K— B3, 27 Kt— 62; 28 P— KS and wins); 27 K— K2, 27 RxB; 28 I'XK 
and White ought to draw at least. 

80. Game 6. — The march of this P is well-timed and goes the shortest road to victory. 

81. Game 6. — Excellent play, as it blocks oXit the R from his most commanding file and leaves Black 

the option of several winning attacks. 

82. Game 6.— There was hardly anything better, for if R— KKt5 Black would have answered R— KKt 

6, and if then the R moved to KB5, Black would capture the KP checking and wins with ease. 

83. Game 6.— As will be seen, Black has calculated to the end with great exactitude in order to counter- 
act the last resource which White is trying to adopt. 

84. Game 6.— Just as bad was K — K5, as Black would also exchange Rooks and ultimately his Queen 
would check at R7 winning the adverse Queen. Again, if K — 64 Black would proceed in a simi- 
lar way as actually played, and would ultimately win by Q — Q4 ch. and exchanging Queens by Q 
— Kt4 ch. 

85. Game 6. — A forlorn hope. But, of course, White had no other resource. See Diagram, page 172. 

Tschigorin v. Steinitz. 

86. Game 7.— If n Kt— Kt3; 12 QKt— Kt5, 12 Q— B sq.; 13 B— KS, 13 P— QB3; 14 BxB, 14 PX 

Kt; 15 BxP with the much superior game. 

87. Game 7. — Black is a P ahead, but his game is fearfully cramped. P — Q3 was obviously worse as 
White would exchange Pawns followed by R— K sq. ch. 

88. Game 7. — An excellent move which establishes communication of the Q with the King's side and 
gives WThite a powerful attack on that wing. 

89. Game 7. — This is the only reply, we believe, to counteract the threatened Q — KR4. 

90. Game 7.— If KtxP White would answer QxKP with the superior game. 

91. Game 7. — Splendid play. The R exercises a powerful influence on that square for the ending. Of 
course, if KtxP Black would answer Q— 64 effectively. 

92. Game 7.— If Q— Kt3 White would exchange Queens followed by P — K6 with an irresistible attack. 

93. Game 7. — White we believe missed here the opportunity of obtaining the victory by 21 P — K6, 21 
KtXP; 22 BxKt, 22 BPXB; 23 Kt— K5 followed by R— Q3 with an irresistible attack. 

94. Game 7. — Feeble. Kt — K3 was now the best defence. 

95. Game 7. — This P is now entirely thrown away. He ought to have still played 23.... Kt — K3; 
and if 24 B— B2, 24 P— KR4; 25 Q— Kt3, 25 P— RS; 26 Q— Kt4, 26 Q— R4 with good hopes of 
extricating himself and winning with the majority of Pawns. 

96. Game 7.— There was hardly any good defence. If 26 Kt— KS; 27 KtXKt ch.,27 BPxKt 528 Kt 

— K7, 28 R— R2; 29 K— R sq. 29 B— Q sq. ; 30 KtxB, 30 RxKt; 31 P— 64, 31 KR— B2 ; 32 P 
— B 5, 32 RXP, 33 RXR, 33 pXR; 34 R— KB sq., with an irristible attack. 

97. Game 7. — Beautiful play. See Diagram page 172. 

98. Game 7.— The ch. of White's Kt at B6 is obviously fatal to Black's game. If, for instance, 34 B 

— Q2; 35 Kt— B6 ch., 35 K— Q sq.; 36 Kt— Kt8, 36 R— R sq. ; 37 R— B8 ch., 37 B— K sq., 38 P— 

Q7 and wins. Again if 34 B — Q sq.; White mates elegantly by 35 P — Q7 ch., 35 BxP; 36 Kt 

— Q6 ch., 36 K— K2; 37 R— 67 mate. 

Steinitz v. Tschigorin. 

99. Game 8. — With the intention of keeping the QP twice defended and in order to make the KP avail- 

( Continued on page 177.) 

176 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 

GAME No. 9. 

Move 52 R— Q8. 

Page 178. 
BLACK— W. STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 10, 

Move 25. RxKt. 

Page 178. 
BLACK— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

ttrssss. 

WHITE — M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE— W. STEINITZ. 

GAME No. I I. 

Move 13. QR— Kt sq. 

Page 178. 
BLACK— W. STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 12. 

Move 57. RxKt. 

Page 182. 
BLACK— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

w 

WHITE— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE — W. STEINITZ. 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 177 

Continued f rent page 175. 

able later on for an advance. But we doubt the advisability of this plan which keeps the Black 
pieces shut up for a long time. 

100. Game 8.— With the view of advancing P— K4 which he could not do at once as White after ex- 
changing would ultimately win a P by BxRP ch. followed by Q— RS ch. 

101. Game 8. — Again he cairn- > push the KP on account of the rejoinder Q — Q3. 

102. Game 8.— A bad -post for the Q and perhaps P — QB4 was his best resource at present. 

103. Game 8. — By this manoeuvre White blocks out two of the adverse pieces, but probably Kt — K.5 
would have led to a more speedy and successful direct King's side attack, for if Black took the Kt 
White could retake with the P followed by R -K3 and R— KKt3. 

104. Game 8. — More promising for the defence was probably 16 P — K4; 17? — Q6, 176 — Kt5; 

18 B— K4, 18 Kt— Q2; 19 P— Kt4, 19 P— QR4- 

105. Game 8.— Necessary for if P — QR4 at once White would reply Q— Q4 followed PxKtP. 

106. Game 8. — But White could now easily hold command of the position on both wings by B — K4 
threatening P— Kt5. If Black drove back this B by P— 64 then the formidable entrance of White's 
Q at Q4 after retreating the KB would win. 

107. White here overrates his attack the on King's side, for as will be seen the entrance of the Kt at Kt 
6 which he speculated upon would hardly yield him any advantage. 

108. Game 8. — White had to change his intended tactics. If 23 Kt— Kt6, 23 BxP; 24 KtxKt, 24 KX 
Kt; 25 Q— R;, 25 B— K3; 26 B— Kt6, 26 B— Kt sq. ; 27 Q— R8, 27 Q— Q2 ! ; and merely at the cost 
of the exchange for which Black has already one P he blocks out the adverse Queen from the game. 

109. Game 8. — Obviously White had here a draw by repetition of moves, for if he now played Q — K4 
Black was bound to answer Kt — B sq. or Kt — Kt4, as he had to guard against the ch. of the Q, 
whereupon White could again attack the B by Q— 64 ch. and compel the Kt to interpose. 

110. Game 8. — Better than BxR, whereupon by the reply BxP ch. Black gains a second P for the ex- 
change and will also afterward exchange B for Kt which will make it very difiicult for White to 
win. 

,111. Game 8.— Probably his best plan was BxRP in order to fight out the battle with his passed Pawns 
on the Queen's side, which we believe would have given him a fair prospect of drawing. 

£12. Game 8. — Necessary, for if B — 65 at once Black would reply Q— Kt6. Though White apparently 
loses time, as he has to go back again with his R to his former place, he in reality gains an im- 
portant move as in the meanwhile he compels the Black King to come out to B2. 

1113. Game 8. — Vorious moves were suggested here afterward for the defence, but all were found on ex- 
amination of no avail. If for instance, 31 BxRP; 32 QBxP, 32 Q — 84 (this seems best, for if 

PXB the R retakes, followed by QR— K sq.); 33 Q— Kt4 and wins equally, for if 33 PxB; 34 

Q — Kt6 ch., etc. 

1114. Game 8.— Of course nothing could save his game. If 35 K — Kt sq. ; 36 QxB, 36 Q — R2 or R 

— Kt2; 37 B— R7 ch., 37 K— B sq. ; 38 B— Kt; mate. 

Tschigorin v. Steinitz. 

Game 9. — This is not a good move, for though Black ultimately wins the QBP against which he 
keeps the B directed, he exposes himself to a formidable attack. 

Game 9. — The right play is here, 12 B— Q3 followed in reply to 12 BX? by 13 R— QKt sq., as 

played by Tschigorin in the ntn game. 

Game 9. — A very ingenious resource under the circumstances, that Black is two Pawns ahead, and 
White at any rate equalizes that material advantage by force. Any other line of play would have 
left Black with an easily winning superiority. 

Game 9.— This, we believe, is the simplest and best plan. After 22 RX?; 23 R— Kt;, White 

will obtain a strong attack either by R— Q sq. or R— QKt sq. 

(Continued on page 

Game 9. 

Evans' Gambit. 

White, 
M. TSCHIGORIN. 

Black, 
W. STEINITZ. 

jP-K4 
lp-K4 
9KKt-B3 

"QKt-B3 
qB-B4 

,P-QKt4 

P-QB3 

"B-R4 

6 Castles 
Q=BI- 
7P-Q4 

' KKt— K2 
B— KKts 

JfcS 

Kt— Q sq. 

Q-R4 

115 

QKt-R3 

llp_QR3 

.0B-Kt3 116 

QR-B sq. 

Q-Kt5 
.QKt-Kt 

5117 

^QXQ 

10PXQ 
jnRXB 

— QB4 

QKtxP 

19 

II 
23 

P-B3 
BxKt 

RXKtP 

KR— QKtsq. 
RXR [118 

R-Ktsq. 119 

B-B3 
R-K 

sq.120 

R— QRsq. 

R-Kt2 

STEINITZ. TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 
i 

Game 10. Game 11, 

Game 9— cont'd. 
10P-KR3 

K-Q3 
Kt-Q2 

qnP~B3 
oUpZTBT 

33 

•R-R6 
>Kt— Kt sq. 

K— K2 
P—Kt 

R-R6 

PXP 

Kt-Ktsg. 
UUR_ KKt6 

R- 

Kt_Q2_ 
U«R— KKt6 

122 

. . Kt— Esq. 123 
41B-Q4 

K-K3 

124 

R— QR; 
Kt-K3 126 

)R— KKt5 

]K-Kt4C ' 
ch. 

JR_Q6 

, Kt— QB4 ch. 

KXB____ 

°"R— Q8125D* 
127 

— K6 

— Kt2 

- 
K-B3 

K-]B2_ 
ODR-KB8 

57 

Resigns. 

1 See Diagram page 176. 

Jrrgeular Opening. 

White, 
W. STEINITZ. 

Black, 

M. TSCHIGORIN. 
.KKt— BS 

B— 

uQKt-B3 128 
.P-K3 

4P-K4 
rQ-Kt3 129 
°BxKt 
nPXB 

°KPXP 180 

BPXP_ 
/Kt— K4 

n?X? 

OKt— Q2 

Kt-B3 131 
UQ— K2 ch. 

Kt— B3132 
B-QKt5 

1.133 

. Castles 0 side 
10p_QR3 
, .B— R4 

. -KR-Kt sg. 
10p-KKt3134 

1 RB^R6 
IDpHi 

B-Kt3 

18 
19 

21 

-Kt3 
KR— K sg. 

K— Q2 

B— KB4 135 

R— QB sq. 

P-QR3 

Q— R4 

B— KKts 136 

Kt— Ktsq 13 7 

23 

Kt-K4 

R-QKtsq 138 
Kt— E6ch. 

.RXKt ' Df 

Evans' Gambit. 

White, 
M. TSCHIGORIN. 

Black, 
W. STEINITZ. 

p— K4 
KKt-B3 

B-B4 

3=E 

P-QKt4 

P-QB3 

B— R4 

Castles 

Q-B3 

1 KKt— K2 
0B-KKt5 
OF; — 7^ — 

Q-Q3 

Kt-Q sq. 

Q~R4 

p_QR3 

B-Q3 140 

141 

iqQR.Ktsql42D- 

luB-Kt2 143 

. .Kt-B4 
HrTZi 

Q-B4 
B-K 

16 

BX 

PXQ 

KR-QBsql45 

BXP 

146 

KtxQP ch. 

KtxKt 

|R-Kt7 ch. 

~147 

5ch. 

K-Q 

P-K 

QXBPch. 
fiDKt— Q2 139 

97?^ 

" ' Resigns, 
t See Diagram page 176. 

n!=?L 

fi / R_B6 

148 

Game 11— conftf. 
B-K4ch. 

Resigns. 

$ See Diagram page 176. 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 179 

( Continued from page i f 7 . ) 

119. Game 9. — An excellent move, which at any rate renders Black's winning more difficult. If he al- 
lowed Black time to institute a double attack with R and B against the QRP, his game was gone 
speedily. 

120. Game 9.— If 25 Kt— Q2, 25 R— Q sq. ; 26 R— Kt2, 26 BxP; etc. 

121. Game 9. — Black, we believe, could have here sooner forced the victory by 30. . . .K — 64; for if 31 
Kt— Kt3 ch., 31 K— Kt5; 32 Kt-Q4 dis. ch., 32 K— 64; 33 R— 62 ch., 33 KxKt; 34 RxB, 34 R 
XP; 35 R— 67, 35 P— Kt5 and Black will win by advancing his KtP and bringing his K up to QR8. 

122. Game 9. — Black has gained time by his manoeuvring with the R for this important advance. 

123. Game 9.— Now, the only move, for if 41 Kt— Kt sq., 41 R— Q6; 42 K— K2, 42 R— KKt6; 43K— B 
a, 43 P— R5;etc. 

184. Game 9. — Very weak. Black could havd won with facility by K — 63, which would have secured 
two Pawns plus. 

125. Game 9. — Not good. R— Kt5 which would have compelled Black to retreat R — R2 in order to 
maintain his P was by far better, and gave him good hopes of a draw. 

126. Game 9 — White's K is cut off, and Black's passed P forces the victory. See Diagram page 176. 

127. Game 9.— A little better was 53 R— Kt6 ch., 53 K— K4; 54 RxP, but Black would also soon win, 
even in that case, by first driving the adverse King further off with 54 ____ R — B8 ch, ; and then ad- 
vancing the P. 

Steinitz v. Tschigorin. 

128. Game 10. — In the usual form of the Q's gambit into which this opening generally resolves itself 
the present move is not considered favorable to the defence, but Black adopted it, no doubt, with 
the view of attempting to break through on the 4th move. 

129. Game 10. — We think this is the strongest continuation and the advantage of Pawns which White 
gains more than compensates the breaking up of his centre and the doubling of his Pawns. 

ISO. Game 10.— Obviously if 6. '. .B— Kt5 ch. ; White interposes the B. But it should be noticed that 
if 6 ____ QPXBP; 7 BxP, 7 Q— Q2; White should reply simply 8 PxP and not 8 BX? ch., where- 
upon after 8 ____ QxB; 9 QxP, 9 K— Q2; 10 QxR, Black obtains a strong attack by 10 ____ QxB 
P followed by KKt— 63 threatening B— Kt$ ch. 

131. Game 10.— White might have won another P by QxKtP, but then after 9 ____ Q— K2 ch. ; 10 B— 
K3 (or 10 K — Q sq., IO R — Kt sq. ; II QxBP, II Q— 63 with a strong attack), 10 ____ Q— Kt$ ch.; 
ii QXQ, nBxQch.; 12 Kt— 63, 12 KKt— 63; Black will recover one Pawn and will at least 
prolong the fight. 

132. Game io.— If 1 1 ____ O— O— O; 12 O— O— O, 12 Kt— Kt3; 13 Q— 65 ch. and wins the BP, for 
should Black interpose the R then follows KB— QKt5- 

133. Game io.— If 12 ____ O— O— O; 13 P— QR3, 13 Q— Q3 (or 13 ____ Q— R4; 14 O— O, with an irre- 
sistible attack); 14 QR— QB sq. followed by Kt— K4- 

134. Game io. — 15 ---- O — O would have also given him a very bad game on account of 16 QB — KR6, 
and if 16. . . .Kt— K sq.; 17 Q— KBs, 17 OKt— 63; 18 RxP ch., 18 KtxR; 19 R— KKt sq., and 

135. Game io.— Threatening BxP, followed by KtXKtP double ch. 

136. Game io. — This is decisive whatever Black might do. White had also the option here of winning 
two minor pieces for the R thus: 21 RxB ch., 21 KxR; 22 B— Ki5, 22 Kt— Q2; 23 Kt— K4, 23 
Q— Kt3; 24 KtXKt, 24 KtxKt; 25 Q— B6, 25 QxQ; 26 PxQ, 26 R— K sq. ; 27 R— Oj, followed 
by R — K3 ch. and wins the Kt. The play in the text is however stronger still, 

137. Game io.— If QKtxP White may proceed with RxB ch., and if KKtX? the answer BxB wins 
equally. v 

jA 

138. Game io.— Nothing better, as White threatens Kt— 65 ch., and if then K— K sq. he proceeds with 
Q — K4, whereas if the K move to Q sq. Black obviously loses the Q by Kt— Kt7 ch. 

( Continued on page 18 1.) 

i So 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 

GAME No. 13. 

Move 41 R— Q6. 

Page 182. 
BLACK — W. STEINITZ. 

• 

• i 

mm. 

GAME No. 14. 

Move 25. B— R3. 

page 184. 
BLACK-— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE — M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE — W. STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 15. 

Move 36 R— Q6. 

Page 1 86. 
BLACK— W. STEINITZ. 

GAME No. 16. 

Move 46. P— B4 ch. 
Page 190. 

BLACK— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

1 ' H 

•ill 

WHITE — M. TSCHIGORIN. 

v WHITE— W. STEINITZ. 

STEINITZ TSC1IIGOK1X GAM MS. 181 

( Continued from page 179.) 

139. Game 10. If 26 KtxKt, then of course 27 Q— K5 mate. And if 26 K— B sq. ; 27 QxR 

ch., 27 K— Kt2; 28 Kt— RS ch. and wins, for if 28 PxKt; 29 R— Kt sq. ch. and mates next 

move. 

Tschigorin v. Steinitz. 

140. Game 1 1.— Compare our notes to the 9th game of the contest up to this point where Tschigorin 
here played B— Kt3- The move in the text is by far superior and in fact it wins. 

141. Game n. — There seems to have been no other course open to Black, as Kt — 64 was always threat- 
ened. 

142. Game II. — This beautiful waiting move wins by force. See Diagram page 176. 

143. Game n.— If 13 Q— Krj; 14 BxKt. 14 KxB; 15 Q — 64 with a winning attack. 

144. Game u.— Equally bad was 15 B— Q5; 16 KtxB, 16 PxKt; 17 BX?, and of course if 17 

QXB; White wins the Q by Kt— Q6 ch. 

145. Game 1 1 .—White would have made shorter work of it by P — Q6. If Black replied PxP the Kt 
would retake checking and win a piece, whilst wherever the KKt moved the answer PxP would 
equally win. 

146. Game II. — Again llxP followed if Black took the B by P — Q6 would win most speedily- 

147. Game II. — Black had only the choice of evils. If K — K sq., White would double the Rooks on 
the 7th file and also win wii.h ease. 

148. Game II — White's victory is now practically settled. 

Steinitz v. Tschigorin. 

149. Game 12.— White would not get a satisfactory game by 6 Q— Kt3, for after 6 ____ BxKKt; 

7 BxKt ch. ; 8 PxB, 8 Kt-R4; 9 Q— 62, 9 KtxP; 10 BxKt, 10 PxB; 11 Q— R4 ch., 11 P— 63; 
12 QxP, 12 Q— Q4; we slightly prefer Black's game. 

150. Game 12. — Necessary, for he evidently cannot Castle at once on account of the rejoinder BxP ch., 
followed by Kt— Kt5 ch. if KxB. 

151. Game 12.— R— B2 instead was much better, for he might have had an opportunity after doubling 
the Rooks of retreating his B ot once to K sq., which saved time. 

152. Game 12. — Heie again White ought to have first attacked by B — R5 compelling the advance of the 
QKtP which created a weak spot at Black's 963. 

153. Game 12. — Much superior to 19. . .Q — Kt4 to which White could safely reply 20 B — Kt3 and if 
then 20 ____ RXP the answer 21 BxKt wins a piece. 

154. Game 12. — Black's attack in the centre is now exhausted and he must lose a P. 

155. Game 12. — 26.... Q — QR4 with the intention ot harassing the adverse Q with his Rooks would 
have failed on account of 27 P— QKt4, 27 Q— R$ ; 28 B— R4, 28 P— KR3 ; 29 P— Kts, 29 P— 

; 30 B— Kt3, 30 QxKtP; 31 QxRP, and maintains his P ahead. 

156. Game 12. — Much more simple and better was Q — KB4, threatening to enter at KR4 with the Q if 
Black refuse to exchange. If Black answered Q— Q6 then White could first playK— B2 followed 
by R — Q2 and Q — K3 constantly gaining time by offering the exchange of Queens. 

157. Game 12. — Kt — R sq. as done later on was by far better. 

158. Game 12.— 38 P— 65, 38 R— Kt$; 39 P— Kt3 (or 39 B— B2, 39 R— 65), 39 ____ Kt— Kt4 would 
have been in Black's favor. 

159. Game 12. — Careless play which again gives Black an attack. 49 B— K3, 49 RxR; 50 RXR, 50 
Kt— Kt3; 51 Q— K2, 51 Kt— K2; 52 R— 67 would have given White an irresistible attack. 

( Continued on page fSj. ) 

182 

Game 12. Game 12-contu 

ooB-Kt3 

Jrregula r Open ing. fa Q p_KR4 

nnp-Kt3 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 

M. 

KKt— B3 

1P-Q4 
P-Q4 

nP-QB4 
OKt— QB3 

31 
32 
33 

Q-Kt4 

Q-B4 

K-Ktsq.156 
K— B sq. 157 

4p-K3 
Kt-B3 

OB— Kt; 

B-Q2 149 
UKKt— K2 

B-Q3 
/B-KB4 

«BXB 

35^ 

Kt-Kts 

36^ 

37 

Kt— R sq. 
P— 64 

Kt— B2 

B— B2 158 

39lEK3 

Q-Kt3 

)— K3 

R_B3 

llR-QKtsq. 

Castles K side . gR— Kt3 
1 L Castles * UK — R2 

OR— Bsq. ijB- B2 

13fc=K^ — 4%=RT~- 

B— Q2 151 irR— QBsq. 
14QKt-K2 ^^R-QBsq. 

R-B2 ISZ.pQR-QB^ 
lbp-QB3 ^DKt-K^ 

17 

KR— QB sq. 

B-K sq. 

KKt— R5 
KtxKt 

A7Q"R6 
* ' R— KKt sq. 

RxRch. 159 

p-B3 

t— B4 153 

50^ 

Kt3 

— K3 

ICQ 

Q-R6 

161 

55R 

.K-Bsq.l54rnR- 
QxKtP 

R-KB6 

Q Q-Kt4 
^/R-Kt3 

OOR_KS JOQ_KKt2 

RxKtl62D*nnQ-K6 

1553/RxBch. 

UUR— KB8 

"OOR_QB8 163 Bl And wins. 
* See Diagram page 176. 

Game 13. 

Evans Gambit. 

White, 

29 

p__QR4 
B~K3 

M. Tschigorin. PxB 

Black, "UP -Rs 

W. Steinitz. f 

P-K4_ 
I?— K4 
«KKt-B3 

RXKt 

— Ksq.172 

Kt— B3 
B-B4_ 
UB-B4. 

UUR— K3 
34R_R2 
35lvt— Bsq. 

173 

sq.174 

SB— R4 

ft Castles 

OOK-K sq. 
Kt-B4 

0/R-K2 175 

KKt— K2 

38F= 

P-R6 176 

UUFJ_1 

uKt— Qsq. U0p_ Kt3 
gB-KKtS164lftQ-R4 

-Q'3 
— R4 

— R5 177 

XUP— KB3 
B-QBsq. 

llB —Kts 

179 

j. ur — r>3 

B-Kt^ 
lOfi— 64 
. .R-Qsq. 

,Q— B8ch. 

^R— K sq. ISO 

•KtxR 

— OKt4 

Q-R6 

Q-R5 

47 

181 

R-B2 

t— Kt2 

— Qsq. 

Kt— Kta 167 

Q-R6 

cnls 
ou^ 

KtxR 

KxKt 

K-B3 

QxPch. 

168 K-B3 
OOP_R4 

Game 13— cont'd. 
.nP-R6 

P-R7 

B— B; ch. 

• K — Q sq. 
,R— Ktsq.l7O 

'Kt— Qs 

KXP 

-R8 

queenng 

K— Q6 

R6 

Q- Kts 

K— 

182 " " K— R8 

^UK— B; 

t See Diagram page 180. 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 183 

( Continued from page 181.) 

160. Game 12. —52 P — R$ was here suggested afterward, but we do not think that Black would 

gain anything after 53 BxP, 53 RXP ch.; 54 K— R sq., 54 R— Kt5; 55 B— B6, etc. 

161. Game 12.— This is a weak move which enables White to gain time. 

162. Game 12.— Which wins by force. See Diagram page 176. 

163. Game 12. — 58. . . .Q — KKt2 suggested by Senor Ponce would no doubt have prolonged the game, 
but even then White would have obtained a sure victory by 59 Q— Q6, 59 R— Ky; 60 QxQP. 60 P 
— R5; 61 Q— KB3, 61 RxKP; 62 R— QR6, 62 Q— QB2; 63 Q— KB4 threatening RxQRP as well 
as QxP ch. and should win. 

Tschigorin v. Steinitz. 

164. Game 13. — In order to bring about the usual blocking position it is better to play Q — R4 first. 

165. Game 13. — This is now a good resource. White can hardly afford to take the B for the sake of 
gaining the KKtP, for after Castling Black will obtain a strong attack on the open KB file. 

166. Game 13.— We do not think that White's attack can be sustained now anyhow, but this and the 
next move get him into trouble, and Black ought to win after that. 

167. Game 13. — The repetitions were made in order to gain time for consideration. The moves on 
White's part are of course compulsory. 

168. Game 13. — Of course this is forced. 

169. Game 13. —The best defence, we believe. If 23 Q— 63 ; 24 Q— 64, 24 Kt— Q3 ; 25 RxKt, 25 

BXR (or 25 QXR; a6 Q— 67 ch., 26 K— Q sq.; 27 B— K.3, 27 BxB; 28 PxB with still a fair 

game); 26 QxB7 ch., 27 K— Q sq. ; 28 QxKtP and White has still a good attack left. 

170. Game 13. —He could not afford to allow himself to be driven away by QR — Kt sq. subsequently. 

171. Game 13.— Black could simplify matters easily here by 28 QxKP; 29 RxKt, 29 QxQ, 30 RX 

Bch., 30 KxR; 31 BxQ, 31 QR— QKt sq. with still the exchange ahead and a splendid game. 

172. Game 13- — A very feeble move. After 32. . . .Kt — 65; 33 QR — Q sq. 33 R — R2 followed soon by 
K— K2 there was nothing left for White. 

173. Game 13. — An excellent move which helps to keep up White's attack for a long time. 

174. Game 13. — Better we believe than R— 62 whereupon White would proceed with Kt— K sq., 
followed by Kt— Q3 and Kt— Kt4. 

175. Game 13. — There was no necessity for this, and K — B sq was by far better- 

176. Game 13.— Black is play ing recklessly. After 38 K-Bsq.; 39 R— KB sq., 39 K— Kt sq.; 

4° Q — RS> 4° Q — K-3 White's attack was again completely booken. 

177. Game 13.— An extraordinary blunder for such an important game. R— KB2 was the only correct 
move. 

178- Game 13. — Highly ingenious. See Diagram page 180. 

-179. Game 13.— There was nothing better, for White threatened QxBP and afterward Q— R8 ch., and 

R— B6 mate. If for instance 41 Q— Kt4; 42 QxBP, 42 K— Q sq. ; 43 RxB ch. and wins. Or 

if 41 ... .QXP; 42 s>xBP, 42 KtXR; 43 KtXKt, 43 K— Q sq. ; 44 Kt— Kt7 ch. and wins. 

ISO. Game 13.— No better was 44. . . .K— 62; 45 QxR, 45 RXP, 46 Kt-B6, 46 R— B8; 47 QxB ch., 
47 QXQ; 48 RxR ch. and wins. 

181. Game 13.— Simple but very fine. After this White wins with the greatest ease. 

182. Game 13.— A forlorn hope, If however 57 K— 65 ; White wins easily by 58 P— RS, 58 K— Kt4 

59 K— Kt3, 59 KxP; 60 K— 64, etc. 

( Continued on page 18 5 .) 

i84 

STEINITZ-GAVILAN TSCHIGORIN-PONCE GAMES. 

GAME No. I 7. 

Move 21. KtXP ch. 

Page 190. 
BLACK — W. STEINITZ. 

m mm. 

&• •-• 

2%%^ ^ 
1 

GAME No. 18. 

Move 22. RX? ch. 

Page 194. -, 
BLACK — A. GAVILAN & W. STEINITZ. 

•il U 

mm 

lil 

feg 

WHITE— M. TSCHIGORIN. 

WHITE — A. PONCE & M. TSCHIGORIN. 

GAME No. 19. 

Move 31. K — B2. 

Page 19-4. 
BLACK — A. PONCE & M. TSCHIGORIN. 

IB* 

GAME No. 20. 

Move 24 P— Kt5- 

Page i9'4. 
BLACK— A. GAVILAN & W. STEINITZ. 

WHITE— A. GAVILAN & W. STEINITZ. 

WHITE—A. PONCE & M. TSCHIGORIN. 

STEIN1TZ-TSCIIIGORIN GAMKS 185 

( ( Continued from page 183.) 

Steinitz v. Tschigorin. 

183. Game 14.— A little improvement on the counter-attack first instituted in the 8th game of the con-^ 
test, but White in our opinion still keeps the best of the game, as he can immediately neutralize the 
action of Black's Kt with his own Kt. 

184. Game 14. -If 8. . . .PxP; 9 BxP, 9 KtxKt: 10 PxKt, 10 Kt-Kt5; 11 O-O— O, with a fine at- 
tack. Or if 8 . . .KtxKt; 9 PxKt, 9 Kt— Kt5 (or 9. . . .Kt— R4; 10 Q— R4 ch., 10 P— QB3; II B 
— Q2, and should win); 10 P— K4 with the superior game. 

185. Game 14. — Better than 14 KBPxKt, for though a P is temporarily gained after 14. . .Kt— B5; 15 

PXBP ch., 15 K-R sq. (best, for if 15 KxP White answers P-B5 followed by B— QB4); 16 P 

—65, 1 6 B — K4 followed by Q— 63 recovering the P with the better game. 

186. Game 14.— Q— Kt4 stopping R— Kt sq. and with the view of offering the exchange of Queens by 
Q — R4 was no doubt better and would have probably equalized the game. 

187. Game 14.— The only move now. If 16 Q— R4; 17 R— Kt4, 17 P— KKt4; 18 BxKt, 18 BxB; 

19 RxB and wins. 

188. Game 14. — Preparing the formidable next move which he could not adopt at once on account of 
the rejoinder Kt — K7 ch. 

189. Game 14.— The better defensive plan was 17 P— KKt4; 18 PxP, <?• /• (or 18 Q— Kt3, 18 K— R 

2; 19 QxP, 19 QXQ, 20 RxQ, 20 K— R3 followed by R— KKt sq.,) 18. . . .PxP; 19 Q— KKt3, T9 
Q— 63; 20 BxKt, 20 BxB; 21 QxP ch., 21 QxQ and though White remains a P ahead, Black 
has a good prospect of drawing on account of the Bishops remaining of opposite colors. 

190. Game 14.— 19 P— B4, 19 QxQ; 20 PxQ, 20 Kt — K2; 21 P— K5 would have also won a piece lor 
two Pawns, but in view of the attack which White retains on the King's side he preferred not to 
exchange Queens. 

191. Game 14.— Better than 21 QxP, 21 QxP; 22 RxKt2, 22 Q— B6, etc. 

192. Game 14.— Preferable was 24 R— Kt3, for if 25 P— 65, 25 Kt— K4; 26 B— K4, 26 P— Kt3 and 

Black's game was defensible for some time, whereas now he is bound to lose two Pawns. 

193. Game 14. — Much better than B — Q5 ch. for Black would move K — B sq. threatening to win a piece 
by R— B4 should White capture the RP. 

194. Game 14. — After this White wins with consummate ease. 

Tschigorin v. Steinitz. 

195. Game 15. — Since the contest was finished we have carefully examined the leading variations aris- 
ing from the defence initiated on Black's previous move 6. . . .Q — B3 and we come to the conclusion 
that it ought to be favorable for the second player. The line of attack adopted by White in this 
game is the most dangerous to meet, but we believe that Black by a little amendment of the devel- 
oping moves can make his game secure and keep the material advantage. The right move at this 
juncture is 7. . . .Kt — R3 and afterward Kt — K2 instead of Kt — Q sq. 

196. Game 15.— To the attack adopted by Mr. Tschigorin in the 5th game at this point, viz 8 Q— Kt3^ 
8 O— O; should be added the following line of play, 9 Kt— R3, 9 PxP (best, for as Mr. Ranken 

points out in the British Chess Magazine, if 9 P— QR3; 10 BxP ch., 10 RxB; II Kt— 64, n Q 

— Kt3; 12 QKtxP, 12 KtxKt; 13 KtxKt, 13 Q-K3; 14 KtXR, 14 KxKt; 15 BxKt, 15 QxQ ! ; 
16 PXQ with an excellent game); 10 PxP, 10 Q— Kt3; 11 P— Q5, n Kt— Q5; 12 KtxKt, 12 Qx 
B; 13 P— Q6, 13 Kt— Kt3; with the superior game. 

197. Game 15.— The idea on which this is based appears to us still correct, subject to its being prepared 
in the manner suggested above. As will be seen, in practical play Black succeeded in extricating 
himself in spite of the large odds against him in consequence of his pieces being imprisoned. But it 
should DC noticed that Black could not allow a hole to be formed at his Q3. If, for instance, 12. ... 

( Continued on page 187.) 

[86 

Game 14, 

Irregular Opening. 

White, 
W. Steinitz. 
Black, 
M. Tschigorin. 
. KKt— B3 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 

Game 15, 

Evans' Gambit. 

White, 
M. TSCHIGORIN. 
Black, 
W. STEINITZ. 
,P— K4 

lp-Q4 

op-Q4 

9KKt— B3 

"B— Kf; 
«P-B4 

qB-B7B3 

"OKt-B3 

"B— B4 
^P-QKt4 

rQ-Kt3 *P-B3 

pKtPxB 

*<B-R4 

co — o 

°KKt— K2183 
7Kt-B3 

OQ— B3 

'PXQP 

pKtXP 

'KKt— K2195 
pP-Q5 196 

°QR-Ktsql84 

°Kt— Q sq. 
nQ-R4 

"Kt— Kt3 

°B-Kt3 
B— KKt5 

11P~B4 

HKt— R3 

llo-o 

P-QB3 
QR-Qsq. 

12gKt— K2 

l6Q_Ktsq.!97 

QBPxktiaa 

. .P— Q6 ch. 

14Kt-Bs 
-Q-KB3 

«K— B sq. 
rKtxP 198 

lUQ_R5 186 
. pR— Kt sq. 

10p_KB3 199 
. nKt-B3 

1«P-KR4 187 
, 7K-Kt sq. 188 

A rrP— K5 2OO 

1/P_B4 189 

4 0Q-KKt3 

— yKt4 
jpBxP 9pKtxKtch. 

AOKt-I^s 

4 nQxB 190 

Came 14 cont'd 1 QKt><P 9QR-R3 207 

1JQxPch. 
nnK-Rsq. 

loKt-K3 201 ^B-K5 
9QQXRP 193 OflPXP nnQ-KHch. 

*UQXBP 
n-Q-Kts 191 

""Kt-Bsq. "UPXP »«B— Kt3 

filQXQP 

nnP-B4 

Jvt — K3 K — -B2 2O2 Q — Kt3 

**P-Kt4 
9QB-Kt2 

ntQ— R7ch. nnQ-Kt4ch2O5 qqKR-Q sq. 

8~a 

0 A V — "-^5 

QQR — QB sq. n|Q— R5ch. Qy,P— QB4 

^p___B4 192 
9_B-R3 D* 

U«R_QR3 U^K— Kt2 "*RXP. 

nnp— B5 194 .-KKt— Q42O6 or^~B3 

"OR— Kt3 
npBXP 

n,Q-R8ch. i»«KtXB nnQ~Kt5 
x/l vR QC 

•""KR— B3 
??B-K4 

U^K— K2 flDR— Esq. UUR-K5 Df 
^--^XPch. R_Q3 --Resigns. 

b \ 0—02 

"« Resigns. "'B— Kt2 "' 

* See Diagram page 180. 

t See Diagram page 180. 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. t 187 

( Continued from page 185.) 

P— KB3; 13 PXP, 13 QXP; 14 Kt-KtS, 14 ?XB (or 14. . . B— 64; 15 B-K3, etc.); 15 KKtxK 
p} 15 Q— 64; 16 Kt— Q6 ch., 16 K— B sq.; 17 QxP, with a winning attack. 

198. Game 15.— Not as good as Q— Kt4 played by Mr. Tschigorin in a subsequent game. 

199. Game 15.— Black could now have obtained a great superiority by 15 6—64; 16 BxP, 16 P — 

QKt4; 17 Q-Kt3, 17 BxQP; 18 P— KB4, 18 6—64 ch.; 19 K— R sq., 19 P— Q3; etc. 

200 Game 15. — Excellent play. The attack which White obtains is quite worth the piece which he 
gives up. 

201. Game 15.— This seems to have been the only move not so much in order to protect the exchange 

as to prevent other vehement attacks, If, for instance, 19 Kt— 62; 20 Kt — 67, 20 PxP; 21 Kt 

XP, 21 KtxKt (or 21... .BXP; 22 RxB, 22 KtXR;— if 22. . .QxKt; 23 Q— 64, etc.,-23 Q— B 
4 ch. ; 23 K— Kt sq. ; 24 Kt— Q5 and wins); 23 Q— 64 ch., 23 Kt— 62; 24 R— K sq., 24 B— Kt2; 
25 R — 67 and wins. 

202. Game 15. — A careless move. He ought to have played K — Kt2. 

203. Game 15.— For White could now get his Kt into play by 22 Kt— K$ ch., which Black could not 
venture to capture e. g., 22 Kt— K 5 ch., 22 PxKt; 23 R— Q3, 23 P— KR3 (there is nothing better 
as White threatens Q— K7 ch. followed by R— Kt3 ch.); 24 Q— K7 ch., 24 K— Kt3; 25 R— Kt3ch., 
25 Kt— Kt4; 26 P— KR4, 26 R— R2; 27 P— RS ch., 27 K— 64; 28 RxKt ch. with an irresistible 
attack. 

204. Game 15. — Again careless play. K — Kt2 was correct. 

205. Game 15. — La Revista del Ajedrez justly points out that White could have won here by 23 Q — K8 
ch., 23 K— Kt2; 24 Q — K7 ch., 24 K — Kt sq.; 25 Kt— K5, 25 PxKt; 26 R— Q3, with an irresisti- 
ble attack. 

206. Game 15. — This attack is ineffective. He ought to have been satisfied with a draw. 

207. Game 15. — Completely throwing away an important move. He evidently overlooked the oppo- 
nent's telling reply. Q — Kt4 ch. to which K — R sq. was the best answer, followed by QxP would 
have enabled him to make a much longer fight. 

Steinitz v. Tschigorin. 

208. Game 16— This leaves the KP weak. Usually P— QKt3 is played at this juncture. 

209. Game 16. — Quite safe now as White can maintain the chain of Pawns by P — QKt4 in reply to P — 
QKt3 without being liable to have his Pawns broken up by P — QR4, as he would then answer P — 

QR3- 

210. Game 10. — An error which costs time. 

211. Game 1 6. — Obviously if P — Kt3 Black would sacrifice the Kt for two Pawns with an irresistible 
attack. 

212. Game 16. — The tempting 19. .. .P — 65 was not good on account of 20 B — K2, and if 20. . . .P — K 
65 ; 21 B— 63, 21 Q— Kt4 (of course if 21 QXP; 22 B— Cj4 and wins); 22 P— K4 with the su- 
perior game. 

213. Game 16.— Clearly best, for he could not allow White's Kt to enter at QB7- 

214. Game 16. — Loss of time. B — B sq. was much better. 

215. Game 16.— If 23 P— 64, 23 Kt— 62; 24 BxKt, 24 BxB; 25 RX?, 25 B— K3; 26 QR— Q sq., 26 
QBXRP with the better game. 

216. Game 16. — Not good. He could more safely play 31 

33 QXB, 33 BXP ch.; 34 K-R sq., 34 B-Kt6; 35 KB-. 

217. Game 1 6. — Black had probably contemplated 35. . . .RxKt; but found on further examination that 

^ /^ 

V <* 

. .B-Q3, for if 32 Kt-K6 ch., 32 I!XKt; * 
-QB4, 35Q-Ksq.;etc. 

Kt 

( Continued on page 189 . ) 

188 

Game 16. 

Irregular Opening, 

White, 
W. STEINITZ. 

Black, 
M. TSCHIGORIN. 

KKt-B3 
IP— KB4 
9P-Q4 
*P-K3 

P-QB4 

KKt— 83 

rKt-B3 

°Castles 
0B-Q3 

P— Q4 208 

P_QB3 
P- B5 

209 

°QKt-Q2 21O 
gKt-Kts 

DKt-Kt sq. 

inF-B3 
lUQ— B2 
..Q-B2 

B-R5 
Kt— B 

-R ch. 

211 

1^QXP 

. p Castles K side 

10B-K2 

1RKt-K2 

iDpn 

17 

PXP 
Kt-Q4 

Kt— ] 

1 "QKt— B3 212 

9(1B-E3 

"UQ-Ktsq.213 

0,KR-Qsq. 

22 

24 

214 

Kt— KB3 
Kt-KR3 215 

B~Bssqq: 

t— KB2 
t— B4 

STEINITZ-TSCHIGORIN GAMES. 

Game 17. 

Game 16— cont'd. 

— K4 

— Bsq. 

•Kt— Qsq. 216 
,Q-K3 

jB-B42 

R— Rsq. 217 

uUKtxKt 
n rr XKt 
0/R_R5 

nnBxPch. 218 

39 

QXBch. 

RxQ ch. 

RXP 219 

K.t— Q6 

L— R6 ch. 

•P— QKt3 

}P— Kt4 

»P— B422OD* 

JK— Q5 221 

tPch. 

RXKt 

R-Q2 
01K-B6 

52 

R-K2 

Evans' Gambit, 

White, 
M. TSCHIGORIN, 

Black, 
W. STEINITZ. 

.P— K4 
lp-K4 

nKKt— B3 
nB-B4 

P-B3 

UB-R4 

B Castles 
o~ 

Q-B3 

'KKt— K2 
P-Q5 

"Kt— Qsq. 

pQ-R4 

U5 — 5771 

10 

LiP-QB3 

\ oQR-Q sq. 

1ZiQ-Ktsq. 

16 

,P— Q6 ch. 

'K— B sq. 
•Q— Kt4 222 
JP— KB3 
B— Kt3 223 

P— KKt3 
Kt-B4 

K— Kt2 224 

P-QR4 
Kt— B2 

PXKt 
BxKt 

KtXPch.225 

n9Kt— B4 

90^1 
6UQ_R2 

% .P— Kt6 

— Ksq. 

229 

'Resigns. 
* See Diagram page 1 80. 

— Kt6 

Game 17— cont'd. 
QR-QKtsq. 

onKt-R4 
"OR-.R5 

nnR-Kt4 

n \ v — v 

dliC^Ktsq. 

QOKt-K3 

R-R4 230 

KR— R 

sq. 

R— R8 
OOR-Kt4 
npR-Kt8 
OOp_OB4 

RXP 

KR— R8 231 

oq1^^ 

OOR — B3 

P-B4 232 
^UP-QKH 

B— R3 
RxR 

45 

Kt-K3 

>-B4 

,Q-] 

51 

p— BS 

Kt— B2 

Q-K4 233 
Q-Rsq. 

IK— B3 234 

Kt— B2 

.Kt— Kt4 
>B— Kt2 235 

,K— Kt sq. 

r7P-B^ 
0/B— B sq. 

Game 17— confd. 

cq^=2? 

OHK-K4 
finKt-Q3ch. 

DUKxP 

•K-K4 
,K-K3 

K— B3 
Kt-Q3 

p R4 
Kt-B5 

B B3 

>-R5 

Kt-K4ch. 

KXB 

Drawn Game. 

t See Diagram page 184. 

STEIN1TZ-TSCHIGOKIN GAMES. 189 

( Continued from page 183. ) 

White then wins by 36 QxR, 36 QxKt; 37 BxKt, 37 PxB (best, for if BxB he is mated by Q— Q 
6 ch.); 38 Q— R6 ch., 38 K— K sq.; 39 Q— R$ ch., 39 K— B sq. (or 39. . . .K— Q2, 40 QxBP ch.); 
40 QXRP, 40 Kt-K3; 41 RxKt. 

218. Game 16.— This at last breaks into the adverse game and White is bound to win another P after- 
ward. 

219. Game 16. — Perhaps Kt— 63 was more simple and would have also won a second P, as Black had 
nothing better than KxR, since White threatened to win a piece by R— K8. 

2 2O. Game 16, — This is decisive. See Diagram page 180. 

221. Game 16.— RxP was the best under the circumstances, but of course vVhite would then have re- 

plied KtxKtP, winning slowly but surely. If, however, 46 K— Q4; 47 KtxBP, 47 Kt— 62; 48 

R— B6, 48 Kt— R sq. ; 49 Kt— K3 ch., 49 K— K-5; 50 Kt — 62 and wins. Obviously if 46 
White would answer R — R4 ch. followed by exchanging Rooks and KtxKtP. 

Tschigorin v. Steinitz. 

222. Game 17. — Compare up to this our notes to the I5th game of the contest. The move in the text 
is the most powerful continuation. It is a waiting move that prevents Black from playing B — 64, 
and keeps the latter 's pieces shut up for a long time. 

223. Game 17. — Still stronger is we believe 16 K--R sq. with the following probable continuation: 16 
. . . .P— KKt3; 17 KtXP, 17 PXKt; 18 P— KB4, 18 R— K sq.; 19 PxP dis. ch., 19 K— Kt2; 20 P 
^-K6, 20 KtXP; 21 BxKt, 21 RXB; 22 P— KS, 22 RxP; 23 Q— KR4, 23 R— K3; 24 Q— KB4 

and wins. 

224. Game 17. — This is grievous loss of time. Much better was 17 Kt — B2; for if 18 KtXB, 18 PX 

Kt; 19 BxKt, 19 KxB; 2oKtxP ch., 2oK — Kt2; and Black still keeps the superiority on the 
Queen's side. 

225. Game 17. — A highly ingenious sacrifice. See Diagram page 184. 

226. Game 17.— If 21 PxKt; 22 P— KB4, 22 R— K sq. (or 22 PxP; 23 RX? ch., followed accord- 
ingly by Q — 64 ch. or Q — Q4 with or without ch. winning in a few more moves); 23 PxP dis. ch., 
23 K— Kt2; 24 Q— Q4, 24 Q— R2; 25 Q— B2, 25 P— QKt4; 26 R— Q4, and wins. 

227. Game 17. — The only move that gave him any hope of releasing himself. 

228. Game 17. — Kt— Kt6 would have compelled Black to give up the exchange by PxP and then to 
fight it out as well as he could for a draw ; for if the R moved, White would answer P — R5 with 
still more effect. 

229. Game 17.— Better than Q— Kt6, in which case, White would reply Kt— Q2 followed by P— KB4, 
whereas if White now pursue the same plan Black would answer R — R7, threatening RxKP in 
case White advance P— KB4. 

230. Game 17. — Much better was P — QB4 with the view of playing P — 65. 

231. Game 17. — A serious error. He ought to have exchanged Queens first and then the move in the 
text would have won a piece, for obviously, if Black defended afterward by R — 63, White would 
answer Kt— Q$ followed by Kt — 67. 

-232. Game 17. — A weak move that enables Black to extricate himself with even forces and the superior 
game. 

233. Game 17. — This weak move was the consequence of a miscalculation. He could have won here 
by 51 ... .Q— Q7I 52 Q— R sq. ch., 52 K— B2; 53 Kt— Kt sq., 53 BX?; 54 KtXB, 54 P— B6; 55 Q 
—KB sq., 55 QxKt ch.; 56 QxQ, 56 PxQ; 57 KxP, 57 K— K3 and wins. 

234. Game 17. — If he played B— R5 White would still answer Kt— 62, for if then BxKt the BP would 
advance to B6 winning. It was this which Black had overlooked when he allowed Queens to be 
exchanged instead of playing Q — Q7 on the 5ist move. 

235. Game 17.— This secures the draw in the simplest manner. It was obviously of no use to play for 

190 

STEINITZ-GAVILAN TSCHIGORIN.PONCE GAMES. 

Game 18. 

Evans1 Gambit. 

White, 
A. PONCE 

AND 
M. TSCHIGORIN. 

Black, 
A. GAVILAN 

AND 

W. STEINITZ. 

1 

P-K4 

P— K4 
ftKKt— 83 

"QKt— B3 
0B-B4 

P— QKt4 

5£ 

e 

R4 

Castles 

Q-B3 

1 KKt -K2 

8P-Q5 

Kt— Q sq. 

Q-R4 

llp_QB3 

9QR-Q sg. 

lfiQ__Ktsq. 
.nBxKt 

P-Q6ch. 

1rQ-Kt4 
**P— KB3 

236 

Kt— 82 

Kt-R4 

*»P— KQ 237 

, pK-R sq. 

Ife 

19 

sq. 

— KB4 

pxP 

238 

239 

ch.24O 

23 

Kt-B5ch. 

QR-KBsq. 

Game 19. 

Irregular Opening, 

White, 
A. GAVILAN 

AND 
W. Steinitz. 

Black, 
A. PONCE 

AND 

M. Tschigorin. 

p-Q4 

KtPxB 

BXP 

244 

XP 

xOch. 

QxO 

KxQ 

Kt-B3 

QKt- 

P-B4 

P— KKt4 

245 

H)K?KP 

..B-Ktsch.246 
llp_ 

B-K2 

— KR3 

pxp 
BXP 

15 

BXB 

RXB 
Kt-B3 

-B2 247 

QR-KKt sq. 

\ qR— Kt5 

1SKt-Kt3 

20K-°2 

RXP 

K3 

- R6ch. 

R-Kt3 248 

'Resigns. 243 ' 

* Sie Diagram page i 

Game 19-cont'd. 

Kt-K3 
,R— Kt sq. 

'QKt-B5249 

R— QKt sq. 
Kt — Kty ch. 
K-B2 25O Df 

ulgKt-Bsdis.ch. 
K-K3 251 
0"Kt— Ktych. 

Game 20. 

Evans' Gambit. 

White, 
A. PONCE 

AND 

M. TSCHIGORIN. 

Black, 
A. GAYILAN 

AND 
W. STEINITZ. 

P-K4 

LP— K4 
fKKt— B3 

|B-B4 3 

>B-B4 
,P-QKt4 

SB— R4 

Castles 

B< 

Q_B3 
P"4 

IB— Kt3 252 

Kt— QR3253 
OKt-KR3 254 

BXKt 

Castles 255 

Kt-B4 

KtXP 

p_Q3 

B— B4 

ch. 

JB— K3 

256 

•J Q ^ 
AOK-Rsq. 

JP— Kt3 257 

>B-Kt4 

B-B3 258 

JR— KKt sq. 
,P— KR3 259 

261 

. 
Drawn Game. 

t See Diagram page 184. 

P-Kt5 262 

Game 20-confd. 

a / R— R5 ch. 
K-Ktsq. 

^OR-] 

65 

'R— R5 ch. 
.K— Kt sq. 

»R— B; 263 

33 

K — Kt sq. 
R — K sq . 

RXP ch. 
Resigns. 2S4 

JSee Diagram page 184. 

STEINITZ-GAVILAN TSCllIGORIN.PONCE GAMES. 191 

CONSULTATION GAMES. 

Ponce and Tschigorin v. Gavilan and Steinitz. 

236. Game 18. — Compare our notes to the I5tn and lyth games of the main contest. 

237 Game 18.— Loss of time. The Black party had nothing to fear from Kt— 65, and they ought to 
have retreated B— Q sq. at once. If then, for instance, 18 Q— 64, 18 Kt— Ry, 19 Kt— 65, 19 P— 
QKt4; etc. 

238. Game 18.— This gives White a powerful attack which was extremely difficult to parry. 

239. Game 18.— Certainly an error, but only on account of the most ingenious rejoinder which White 

had in store. The best defensive plan was 21 K— Kt2; with the probable continuation 22 QxB 

P, 22 R— B sq. ; 23 P— K6, 23 PxP; 24 P— Q;, 24 QxQ; and Black will have three Pawns for the 
piece with a good game. But 21 ... .P — KKt4 was also of no use on account of 22 Q — 64 ch., 22 
K— B sq.; 23 Kt— 65, 23 PxP; 24 Q— K4, 24 6—63; 25 Kt— B4, etc. 

240. Game 18. — As will be seen from our analysis, this sacrifice is as deep as it is beautiful and forms 
one of the finest instances of brilliant combination play. See Diagram page 184. 

241. Game 18.— If 22 PXR; 23 QxP ch., 23 K— Kt2; 24 R— KB sq., 24 R— Kt sq. (or 24 P— 

QKH; 25 Q— B; ch., 25 K— R3; 26 Kt— 65 ch., 26 PxKt; 27 RxP, 27 B— Kt4; 28 P— KR4 and 
wins. Or if 24. .. .BxKt; 25 Q— Q4 ch., 25 K— Kt sq. ; 26 Q— QB4 ch., 26 K— Kt2; 27 R— B7 
ch. and wins); 25 Q— Q4 ch., 25 K— R3; 26 R— 67, 26 B— Kt4 (or 26. .. .P— KKt4; 27 Q— K4, 27 

R_Kt3— if 27 PxKt; 28 QxP at R7 ch., followed by R— 65 ch. and Q— R$ mate—; 28 RxP 

ch., 28 KxR; 29 QXR ch., 29 K— R sq.; 30 Kt— 65 and wins); 27 Q— Kt4, 27 QxP; 28 Kt— 65 
ch., 28 PxKt; 29 Q— R'3 ch. and wins. 

242. Game 1 8.— The Black allies might have somewhat prolonged the game by 25 K — R3; when 

the game might have proceeded: 26 Q— 65, 26 P— Kt4; 27 QxP, 27 R— Kt4; 28 RxR, 28 BxR; 
29 R— B6 ch., 29 BxR; 30 QXB ch., 30 K— R4; 31 P— KR3 and mates next move. 

243. Game 18.— Nothing to be done for White will proceed with R— B8. 

Gavilan and Steinitz v. Ponce and Tschigorin. 

244. Game 19.— If 6. . . .PxP; 7 Q— Kts, 7 Q— K2; 8 QxP (8 BxP ch., 8 QxB; 9 QxP, 9 P- 63; 10 

QXR, 10 B— Q3; followed by Kt— 63 would be bad for White), 8 Q— Kt$ ch. ; 9 QxQ, 9 BX 

Q ch. ; 10 B— Q2 with the better game. 

245. Game 19. — 10 P— K6, 10 PxP; n PXP, n P — K4; 12 Kt— 63 were far superior. 

246. Game 19. — To prevent either of the adverse Knights from entering at QB3, which would have 
been inconvenient, as White had to advance the KP sooner or later, and his Q4 square would form 
a convenient post for the adverse Kt. 

247. Game 19.— So far the White allies had still the better game, but they lose time here, for K— Q2 
with the view of supporting the Pawns on the King's side by K — K3, was much superior. 

248. Game 19. — The White allies injudiciously try to maintain the attack on the King's side which 
could not be well enough supported, since Black after removing the R could at least effect the ex- 
change of the adverse B for the Kt by Kt— R4 in case White advanced the BP. R — Kt sq. with 
the view of advancing the Pawns on the Queen's side as was done later, gave more prospects of 
success for White's game. 

249. Game 19.— If 28 P— QB4; 29 P— R4, 29 Kt— Q5; 30 R— Kt5, 30 P— Kt3; 31 P— RS with a 

good game. 

( Continued on page 192.) 

192 STEINITZ-GAVILAN TSCHIGORIN-PONCE GAMES. 

(Continued from page zg r.) 

2 SO. Game 19.— It was of no use trying to escape the draw by K— Q3, for after 31 QKt— 65 ch.-, 

White could not retreat 32 K— Q2 on account of 32. . . Kt— Q5; 33 R— K sq., 33 QKtXB; 34 Kt 
XKt, 34 KtxP ch. and wins. See Diagram page 184. 

251. Game- 19.— Best. If 32 K— Kt sq., 32 R— Kt; ch. ; 33 K— B sq. (or 33 K— R sq., 33 KtxB with 

a sure draw at least and a good prospect of winning), 33 Kt— Kt4 threatening Kt— R6 with an 

excellent attack. 

Ponce and Tschigorin v. Gavilan and Steinitz. 

252. Game 20. — A deviation from the course adopted in the main contest between Messrs. Steinitz and 
Tschigorin which, however, might only lead to a transposition in the order of moves. 

253. Game 20. — For we think that White might have proceeded with 8 Q — R4 with the view of advanc- 
ing P — Q5 to which Kt — R4 would not be a good reply, as White would then retreat B — Q3 fol- 
lowed by P— 64 and B— Q2. Whereas if 8. . . .PxP; 9 P— KS, 9 Q— Kt3; 10 PxP, 10 KtxP; n 
KtXKt, ii BxKt; 12 BX? ch., 12 QxB; 13 QxB, 13 Kt— K2; 14 B— R3, 14 Castles; 15 Kt— 63, 

15 R— K sq.; 16 BxKt, 16 QxB: 17 QR— Q sq., with a fine game, for if 17 P— 63; 18 Kt— 

I<4, 18 QXP; 19 Kt— Q6 and wins. 

254. Game 20. — We believe that Black could also safely play 8 P— Q3; and if 9 QB— KKt5, 9 Q — 

Kta; 10 PXP, 10 PXP; n KtxP, n QxB; 12 KtxP, 12 Q— RS; 13 KtxR, 13 Kt— 63 threaten- 
ing Kt — Kt5 with an excellent attack. 

255. Game 20 — Black has now slightly the advantage owing to his opportunity of forcing an open file 
for his R by P— KB3. 

256. Game 20. — Either R to K sq. would have been of no use as White could well answer Kt — Q7- 

257. Game 20. — The Black allies take their chances of an immediate King's side attack but we believe 
that Q — QB3 was more sure to give them the best of the game. They might have then continued 
B — R4 which either forced the QBP on, whereupon Black would again retreat the B and then fix 
their B at Q5, or Black's QR would obtain free possession of the open Q file, in case White defended 
the QBP with one of their Rooks. 

258. Game 20. — This was wrong. They ought to have retreated B — K2 followed by K — R sq., and 
though Black would have won the KBP by doubling Rooks it would have been very difficult at least 
if not impossible for them to force the game on account of the Bishops being of opposite colors. 

259. Game 20. —This gives the opponents an opportunity of instituting an irresistible attack, 24 K — R 

sq. was by far better, for if 24 P— Kt$, 25 B— K2, 25 BX? (or 25 RxKP ; 26 P— 63, etc.); 

26 P— Kt3, 26 Q— R3 (if 26 RxP ; 27 K— Kt2 and wins); 27 Q— Q5 (but not 27 PxR on ac- 
count of the reply, 27. .. .B — Kt6, etc.) and ought to draw. 

260. Game 20.— This forces the game, and it will be easily noticed that White's replies to the end are 
all compulsory. See Diagram page 184. 

261. Game 20.— If 25 BxP, 25 R (Kt sq.) XB ; 26 PxR, 26 RxBP ; 27 RxR ; 28 OXR ch., 28 K 
moves, 28 Q— RS mate. 

262. Game 20.— Of course if PX? then RxB. 

263. Game 20.— Both parties were here much pressed for time, and relieved themselves by repetition 
moves. 

264. Game 20.— For if KxR then Q— R7 ch. and QXP mate. 

INDEX OF GAMES. 

Alapin & Petroffsky v. Schiffers ,V TsrhiiM>rin 
Amateur v. Mephisto ...................... 

Amateur v. Kieseritzky .................... 

Anderssen v. Kolisch ....................... 

" v. Neumann ..................... 

" v. Paulsen ............... 28, 78, 

" v. Steinitz ..................... 

" v. Suhle ......................... 

Barnes v. Morphy .......................... 

Baucher v. Morphy ........................ 

Bauer v. Porges ............................ 

Bird v. Morphy ........................... 

" v. Tschigorin .......................... 

Bilguer v. von Heydebrand und der Lasa ..... 

Blackburne v. Mason ...................... 

" v. Steinitz ............... 28, 36, 

" v. Zukertort .................... 

v. Winawer ..................... 

Brien & Wormald v. Lowenthal ............. 

Brunswick, Duke of & Count Isouard v. Morphy 
Crefeld Chess Club v. Wesel Chess Club ...... 

Uelmar, Grundy & Moehle v. Judd, Sellmann 
& Ware .......................... 

De Riviere v. Morphy .... .................. 

Dufresne v. von Heydebrand und der Lasa. . . 
Esling v. Goldsmith ........................ 

Englisch v. Rosenthal ..................... 

Frankfurt v. Stuttgart ...................... 

Goldsmith v. Esling ........................ 

Golmayo v. Steinitz ....................... 

Gunsberg v. Schallopp ...................... 

Hammond v. Mackenzie ................... 

Harrwitz v . Kolisch ........................ 

" v. Morphy ........................ 

von Heydebrand und der Lasa v. von Bilguer . 
" v. Dufresne.. . 

Hirschfeld v. Kolisch ....................... 

Isouard, Count & Duke of Brunswick v. Mor- 
phy ......................... • ..... 

Judd, Sellmann & Ware v. Delmar, Grundy 
& Moehle .......................... 

Judd v. Steinitz ............................ 

Kolisch v. Anderssen ...................... 

" v. Harrwitz .: ..................... 

" v. Hirschfeld ....................... 

Kieseritzky v. Amateur ..................... 

Liechtenhein v. Morphy .................. 

Lowenthal v. Brien & Wormald .............. 

Mackenzie v. Hammond .................... 

" v. Winawer ...................... 

MacConnell v. Zukertort .................... 

Mason v. Blackburne ....................... 

" ^. Potter ............................ 

Mephisto v. Amateur ....................... 

Minchin v. Wayte ......................... 

Moehle, Delmar & Grundy v. Judd, Sellmann 
& Ware .......................... 

Morphy v. Barnes ......................... 

v. Baucher ........................ 

v. Bird ........... ................. 

v. Duke of Brunswick & Count Isouard 
v. Harrwitz ........................ 

v. Liechtenhein .................... 

i>. De Riviere ...................... 

v. Potier ........................... 

132 

82 

136 

136 

36 

108 

28 

20 

154 

154 

38 

158 

1 12 

82 

78 

52 

32 

154 

36 

158 

112 

136 
112 

108 

154 
52 
32 

154 
20 
24 

132 
82 

154 
82 

108 

108 

158 

136 

48 
136 

82 
108 
136 
132 

36 
132 

32 
112 

78 
132 

82 

82 

136 
154 
154 
158 
158 
158 
132 
112 
136 

v. ainer. 
v. Ponce 

to* 

Morphy v. Paulsen 48 

Mortimer v. St. Bon 108 

Neumann v. Anderssen 36 

Paulsen v. Anderssen 28, 78, 108 

" v. Morphy 48 

" v. Zukertort 86 

Petroffsky & Alapin v.u Schiffers & Tschigo- 
rin " 132 

Ponce v. Steinitz 20 

Porges v. Bauer 36 

Potier v. Morphy 1 36 

Potter v. Mason 132 

Rainer v. Steinitz 164 

t)e Riviere v. Morphy 112 

Rosenthal v. Englisch 52 

" v. Steinitz 24, 52 

" v. Anderssen 108 

Schallopp v. Gunsberg 24 

" v. Zukertort 78 

Schiffers & Tschigorin v. Alapin & Petroffsky.. 132 
Sellmann, Judd & Ware v. Delmar, Grundy & 

Moehle 136 

Staunton v. 86 

St. Bon v. Mortimer 108 

Steinitz v. Anderssen . -. 28 

" v. Blackburne 3$, 36, 52 

•••••>> - 48 

r-----WWV ••••*• "54 

»6*Jfc^. .^j^ 20 

« v. Rosenthal....../..;.. 24, 52 

" v. Zukertort :..;....: 20, '48, 86 

Stuttgart v. Frankfort 

Suhle v. Anderssen 20 

Tschigorin v. Bird 112 

v. Schiffers 78 

' ' Zukertort 24 

Zukertort v. Blackburne 32 

" v. MacConnell 112 

" v. Paulsen 86 

" v. Steinitz 20, 48, 86 

" v. Tschigorin 24 

" v. Winawer 32, 48 

Ware, Judd & Sellmann v. Delmar Moehle & 

Grundy 136 

Wayte v. Minchin 82 

Winawer v. Blackburne 154 

" v. Mackenzie 32 

" v. Zukertort 32, 48 

Wormald & Brien v. Lowenthal 36 

The Contest between Messrs. Steinitz & Tschig- 
orin 

Games i and 2* 

" 3, 4 and 5 

" 6, 7 and 8 

" 9, 10 and ii 

" 12 and 13 

" 14 and 15 

" 16 and 17 

Consultation Games. — 

Game 18 Evans' Gambit. Ponce & Tschig- 
orin v. Gavilan & Steinitz 194 

" 19 Irregular Opening. Gavilan & 

Steinitz v. Ponce & Tschigorin 194 

" 20 Evans' Gambit. Ponce & Tschig- 
orin v. Gavilan & Steinitz 194 

162 
1 66 
170 
'74 
178 
182 
1 86 
190 

* In the games marked by odd numbers Mr. Tschigorin had the move, and played the Evans' Gambit 
^hroughout, with the exception of Game 3, which was a Ruy Lopez. In the even numbered games, Mr 
teinitz had the move, and opened always with I KKt— 63. 

193 

RETURN 
T 

MAIN CIRCULATION 

ALL BOOKS *RE 9LWBCT TO RECALL 
RENEW BOOKS BY CALLING 642-3405 

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 

SENT ON ILL 

JUN ? n m 

• £ U KJcf 
U C RPnifcri c 

• 

w. «n ocrtrvcLfc 

SENT ON ILL 

c;rp 2 2 W95 

U C BERKELEY 

FORM NO. DD6 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
BERKELEY, CA 94720 

^ 

- : 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY