This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at|http : //books . google . com/ 

II 

i 

r\v-.-, 

p 

THE BOOK OF THE 

SIXTH AMERICAN CHESS 
CONGRESS 

CONTAINING 

THE GAMES OF THE INTERNATIONAL CHESS TOURNAMENT 

HELD AT NEW TOBK IN 

0 

1889. 

<"jf ^ V/ (One issue only of 500 copies.) 

Edited by W. STEINITZ. 

COPY NO. 
40. 

ISSUED TO 
P. A. MERIAN, New York. 

NEW YORK 

1891, 

^' \^ f ^ 

f^ f ' 

I ' 

THE NEW YORK 

PUBLIC UBRARY 

518199 

ASTOR, LENOX AND 

TILDEN FOi'^'DATIONS. 

R 1912 U^ 

Copyright by the Committee of the 
SIXTH AMERICAN CHESS COXC4RESS, 1891. 

(All Rights Reserved.) 

Entered at Stationers' Hall, London, 
By the Committee of the Sixth American Chess Congress. 

TO seSor don celso golmayo, 

THE CHESS CHAMPION OF THE SPANISH NATIONALITIES, 

IN HIS CAPACITY OF PRESIDENT OF THE HAVANA CHESS CLUB, 

WHICH BY ITS OENEROUS PATRONAGE OF THE GAME 

HAJS C7HIEFLY CAUSED THE OBEAT REYIVAL OF CHESS WITHIN RECENT YEARS, 

AS WELL AS IN REGOONITION OF HIS ADMIRABLE PERSONAL QUALITIES, 

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED 

BY THE EDITOR. 

i 

PREFACE. 

If the editorial merits of this book should disappoint the 
anticipations of the Chess world, I can only plead in extenuation 
that they do not satisfy my own. According to my original 
plan which, no doubt, the Committee of the Congress would 
have cheerfully supported if the means at their disposal had 
allowed it, the annotations to the games would have been 
more extensive and the illustrative diagrams .more numerous. 
But, as explained in the Committee Report, the financial aflfairs 
of the Congress were not in a flourishing condition, and con- 
sequently the printing expenses of the book had to be cut 
down as much as possible by abbreviating the notes which 
was done especially in the latter part of this work. 

However, I feel confident that my own editorial short- 
comings will be covered fully by the contents of this volume^ 
which, I may fairly say, stands hitherto unsurpassed in the 
main as a collection of tournament games, owing to the 
number of competitors, which was unprecedented for a double 
round contest, as well as on account of the average of strength 
exhibited in the play. 

W. STEINITZ. 
Mabch, 1891. 

CONTENTS. 

PAGfK 

Report of the Committee vin 

Score of the Tournament ...*.../ xxvi 

Treasurer's Account - * . . • xxvil 

Subscription List . - . . xxvni 

SPECIAL PEIZE GAMES. 

Mason v. Gunsberg, Best game of the Tournament . . . 
Weiss V. Pollock, Most brilliant game of the Tournament 

1 
2 

M. TSCHIGOEIN'S GAMES. 

D. G. Baird v. Tschigorin 
Tschigorin v. D. G. Baird 
Tschigorin v. J. W. Baird 
J. W. Baird v. Tschigorin 
Bird V. Tschigorin . . 
Tschigorin v.^ird . . 
Blackburne v. Tschigorin 
Tschigorin v. Blackburne 
Burille v. Tschigorin 
Tschigorin v. Burille 
Bum V. Tschigorin . 
Tschigorin v. Sum . 
Tschigorin v. Delmar 
Delmar v. Tschigorin 
Gossip V. Tschigorin 
Tschigorin v. Gossip 
Tschigorin v. Gunsberg 
Gunsberg v. Tschigorin 
Tschigorin v. Gunsoerg 
Tschigorin v. Hanham . 

4 Hanham v. Tschigorin . 

5 Judd V. Tschigorin . . 

6 Tschigorin v. Judd . . 

8 Tschigorin v. Lipschiitz 

9 Lipschiitz v. Tschigorin 
10 Tschigorin v. MacLeod . 
12 MacLBod v. Tschigorin . 
14 Tschigorin v. Martinez . 
16 Martinez v. Tschigorin . 

16 Tschigorin v. Martinez . 

17 Tschigorin v. Mason . . 

19 Mason v. Tschigorin . . 

20 Pollock V. Tschigorin . 

23 Tschigorin v. Pollock . 

24 Tschigorin v. Pollock . 

25 Tschigorin v. Showalter 

26 . Showalter v. Tschigorin 

27 Taubenhaus v. Tschigorin 

28 Tschigorin v. Taubeimaus 

29 Tschigorin v. Weiss . . 

31 
31 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 
39 
41 
42 
43 
44 
44 
45 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
53 

CONTXNT& 

m 

Weiss V. Tschigorin . 
Tschigorin v. Weiss . 
Weiss V. Tschigorin*. 

D. G. Baird v. Weiss 
Weiss V. D. G. Baird 
D. G. Baird v. Weiss 
J. W. Baird v. Weiss 
Weiss V. J. W. Baird 
Weiss V. Bird . . . 
Bird V. Weiss . . . 

M. 

Paox 

. 54 Tschigorin v. Weiss 
. 57 Weiss v. Tschigorin 
. 114 Tschigorin v, Weiss 

WEISS' GAMES. 

59 
60 
62 
65 
67 
68 
69 

Weiss V. Bird 71 

Blackbnrne v. Weiss ... 73 

Weiss V. Blackbume ... 75 

Weiss V. Burille 76 

Burille V. Weiss 77 

Bum V. Weiss 78 

Weiss V. Bum 79 

Bum V. Weiss 80 

Weiss V. Delmar 81 

Delmar v. Weiss 82 

Gossip V. Weiss 83 

Weiss V. Gossip 84 

Weiss V. Gunsoerg .... 86 

Gunsberg v. Weiss .... 87 

Weiss y. Hanham 
Hanham v. Weiss 
Judd V. Weiss . . 
Weiss V. Judd . . 
Weiss V. Lipschutz 
Lipschiitz v. Weiss 
Lipschutz V. Weiss 
MacLeod v. Weiss 
Weiss V. MacLeod 
Weiss V. Martinez 
Martinez v. Weiss 
Weiss V. Martinez 
Weiss V. Mason 
Mason v. Weiss 
Weiss V. Mason 
Pollock V. Weiss 
Weiss V. Pollock 
Weiss V. Showalter 
Showalter v. Weiss 
Taubenhaus v. Weiss 
Weiss V. Taubenhaus 

L GUNSBERG'S GAMES. 

Gunsberg v. D. G. Baird 
D. G. Baird v. Gunsberg 
D. G. Baird v. Gunsberg 
Gunsberg v. J. W. Baird 
J. W. Baird v. Gunsberg 
Gunsberg v. Bird . . . 
Bird V. Gunsberg . . . 
Gunsberg v. Blackburne 
Blackbume v. Gunsberg 
Gunsberg v. Burille 
Burille v. Gunsberg 
Gunsberg v. Bum . 
Bumv. Gunsberg. 
Gunsberg v. Delmar 
Delmar v. Gunsberg . 
Gunsberg v. Gossip 
Gossip V. Gunsberg 
Hanham v. Gunsberg 
Gunsberg v. Hanham 

119 Hanham v. Gunsberg 

120 Gunsberg v. Judd . . 

122 Judd V. Gunsberg . . 

123 Lipschutz v. Gunsberg 

124 Gunsberg v. Lipschutz 

125 MacLeod V. Gunsberg 

126 Gunsberg v. MacLeod 

127 Martinez v. Gunsberg 

128 Gunsberg v. Martinez 
130 Mason v. Gunsberg . 

132 Gunsberg v. Mason . 

133 Gunsberg v. Mason . 

134 Gunsberg v. Pollock . 

135 Pollock V. Gunsberg . 

136 Showalter v. Gunsberg 

137 Gunsberg v. Showalter 

138 Taubenhaus v. Gunsberg 

140 Gunsberg v. Taubenhaus 

141 Gunsberg v. Taubenhaus 

Paob 

.116 
.117 
.117 

. 89 
. 90 
. 91 
. 92 
. 94 
. 95 
. 96 
. 98 
. 99 
.100 
.101 
.102 
.103 
.105 
.106 
.107 
. 2 
.109 
.110 
.111 
.112 

.142 
.143 
. 144 
. 146 
. 147 
.149 
.150 
. 152 
. 153 
. 1 
.155 
. 15(5 
.157 
. 158 
. 159 
.160 
.162 
.163 
.164 

* ThiVi game and the three foHowing were played in the tie match between 
Messrs. Tschigorin and Weiss for first and second prizes. 

IV 

CONTENTS. 

J. H. BLACKBUENE'S GAMES. 

D. G. Baird v. Blackbume 
Blackbume v. D. G. Baird 
D. G. Baird v. Blackbume 
Blackbume v. J. W. Baird 
J. W. Baird v. Blackbume 
Bird V. Blackbume . 
Blackbume v. Bird . 
Burille v. Blackbume 
Blackbume v. Burille 
Blackbume v. Burn . 
Bum V. Blackbume . 
Bum V. Blackbume . 
Delmar v. Blackbume 
Blackbume v. Delmar 
Gossip V. Blackbume 
Blackbume vi Gossip 
Blackbume v. Hanham 
Hauham v. Blackbume 
Blackbume v. Hanham 

Paob 

166 Judd V. Blackbume . . 

167 Blackbume v. Judd . . 

168 Blackbume v. Lipschiitz 

170 Lipschiitz v. Blackbume 

171 Blackbume v. MacLeod 

172 MacLeod v. Blackbume 

173 Blackbume v. MacLeod 

175 Blackbume v. Martinez 

176 Martinez v. Blackbume 

177 Blackbume v. Mason 
179 Mason v. Blackbume 
179 Blackbume v. Mason 

181 Pollock V. Blackbume 

182 Blackbume v. Pollock 

183 Blackbume v. Showalter 

184 Showalter v. Blackbume 

185 Taubenhaus v. Blackbume 

186 Blackbume v. Taubenhaus 
187 

Vaqk 

189 

190 

191 

192 

193 

.194 

.196 

,197 

.199 

.200 

.201 

.203 

.204 

.206 

.207 

.208 

.210 

.210 

A. BURN'S GAMES. 

D. G. Baird v. Burn .... 212 
Bum V. D. G. Baird .... 213 
Bum V. J. W. Baird .... 215 
J. W. Baird v. Bum .... 216 

Bird V. Bum 217 

Burn V. Bird 218 

Burille v. Burn 219 

Burn V. Burille 220 

Burn V. Burille 222 

Delmar v. Bum 223 

Bum V. Delmar 224 

Gossip V. Burn 225 

Burn V. Gossip 227 

Bum V. Hanham 228 

Hanham v. Burn 229 

Judd V. Bum 231 

Burn V. Judd . . 
Burn V. Lipschiitz 
Lipschiitz V. Burn 
Lipschiitz v. Bum . 
Burn V. MacLeod . 
MacLeod v. Bum . 
Bum V. Martinez . 
Martinez v. Bum . 
Bum V. Mason . . 
Mason v. Burn . . 
Pollock V. Burn . 
Bum V. Pollock . 
Burn V. Showalter 
Showalter v. Burn 
Burn V. Taubenhaus 
Taubenhaus v. Bum 

232 
234 
235 
237 
238 
239 
240 
242 
243 
244 
245 
246 
247 
248 
249 
251 

S. LIPSCHUTZ'S GAMES. 

Lipschiitz v. D. G. Baird . . 253 

D. G. Baird v. Lipschiitz . . 254 

J. W. Baird v. Lipschiitz . . 255 

Lipschiitz v. J. W. Baird . . 256 

Lipschiitz v. Bird . . . . . 257 

Bird V. Lipschiitz . . 
Lipschiitz v. Burille . 
Burille v. Lipschiitz . 
Lipschiitz v. Delmar . 
Delmar v. Lipschiitz . 

260 
261 
262 
263 
265 

CONTENTS. 

liipschiitz V. Gossip . 
Gossip V. Lipschiitz . 
Lipscniitz v. Gossip . 
Lipschiitz y. Hanham 
Hanham v. Lipschiitz 
Lipschiitz v. Hanham 
Lipschiitz v. Judd 
Judd V. Lipschiitz 
MacLeod v. Lipschiitz 
Lipschiitz v. MacLeod 
Martinez v. Lipschiitz 

Paqb Pagx 

266 Lipschiitz v. Martinez . . . 279 

267 Mason v. Lipschiitz .... 280 

268 Lipschiitz v. Mason .... 281 

269 Lipschiitz v. Pollock .... 283 

270 Pollock V. Lipschiitz ... 284 

272 Showalter v. Lipschiitz ... 286 

273 Lipschiitz v. Showalter ... 287 

274 Taubenhaus v. Lipschiitz . . 289 

275 Lipschiitz v. Taubenhaus . . 290 

276 Taubenhaus v. Lipschiitz . . 291 
,278 

J, MASON'S GAMES. 

D. G. Baird v. Mason 
Mason v. D. G. Baird 
J. W. Baird t. Mason 
Mason v. J. W. Baird 
Mason v. J. W. Baird 
Mason v. Bird . . 
Bird V- Mason . . 
Mason t. Burille . 
Burille v. Mason . 
Mason v. Delmar . 
Delmar v. Mason . 
Delmar v. Mason . 
Gossip V. Mason . 
Mason V. Gossip . 
Gossip V. M^won . 
Mason v. Hanham 

293 Hanham v. Mason 

293 Mason y. Hanham 

294 Judd Y. Mason . . 
296 Mason v. Judd . . 

296 MacLeod y. Mason 

297 Mason y. MacLeod 
. 299 Mason y. Martinez 
. 300 Martinez y. Mason 
, 301 Martinez y. Mason 

302 Pollock y. Mason . 

303 Mason v. Pollock . 

304 Mason y. Showalter 

305 Showalter y. Mason 

306 Mason y. Taubenhaus 
, 307 Taubenhaus y. Mason 

308 Mason y. Taubenhaus 

309 
310 
311 
312 
313 
314 
315 
316 
317 
318 
318 
320 
320 
321 
323 
323 

MAX JUDD'S GAMES. 

Judd V. D. G. Baird 
D. G. Baird y. Judd 
Judd y. J. W. Baird 
J. W. Baird y. Judd 
Bird y. Judd 
Judd y. Bird . 
Burille v. Judd . 
Judd y. Burille . 
Delmar y. Judd 
Judd y. Delmar 
Gossip y. Judd . 
Jadd y. Gossip . 
Hanham y. Judd 

325 Judd y. Hanham 

326 Judd y. MacLeod 

327 MacLeod y. Judd 

328 Martinez y. Judd 

330 Judd y. Martinez 

331 Judd y. Pollock 

331 Pollock V. Judd 

332 Judd y. Showalter 

333 Showalter y. Judd 

335 Showalter y. Judd 

336 Judd y. Taubenhaus 

337 Taubenhaus y. Judd 
338 

339 
340 
341 
342 
343 
344 
345 
346 
347 
348 
349 
350 

VI 

CONTENTS. 

E, DELMAE'S GAMES. 

Delmar v. D. G. Baird 
D. G. Baird v. Delmar 
J. W. Baird v. Delmar 
Delmar v. J. W. Baird 
Delmar v. Bird . 
Bird V. Delmar . 
Delmar v. Burille 
Burille v. Delmar 
Delmar v. Gossip 
Gossip V. Delmar 
Delmar v. Gossip 
Hanliam v. Delmar 
Delmar v. Hanham 

Pagk 

. 352 Delmar v. Hanham . 

. 353 MacLeod v. Delmar . 

. 354 Delmar v. MacLeod . 

. 355 Delmar v. MacLeod . 

. 356 Martinez v. Delmar . 

. 356 Delmar v. Martinez . 

. 357 Delmar v. Pollock . 

. 359 Pollock V. Delmar . 

. 360 Showalter v. Delmar . 

. 361 Delmar v. Showalter . 

. 362 Delmar v. Taubenhaus 

. 363 Taubenhaus v. Delmar 

. 364 Delmar v. Taubenhaus 

J. W. SHOWALTEE'S GAMES. 

D. G. Baird v. Showalter 
Showalter v. D. G. Baird 
J. W. Baird v. Showalter 
Showalter v. J W. Baird 
Showalter v. Bird . 
Bird V. Showalter . 
Showalter v. Burille 
Burille v. Showalter 
Showalter v. Gossip 
Gossip V. Showalter 
Gossip V. Showalter 

W. H 

D. G. Baird v. Pollock 
Pollock V. D. G. Baird 
Pollock V. D. G. Baird 
Pollock V. J. W. Baird 
J. W. Baird v. Pollock 
Bird V. Pollock . 
Pollock V. Bird . 
Burille v. Pollock 
Pollock V. Burille 
Gossip V. Pollock 

Bird V. D. G. Baird 
D. G. Baird v. Bird 
Birdv. J. W. Baird 
J. W. Baird v. Bird 
J. W. Baird v. Bird 

. 380 Showalter v. Hanham 

, 381 Hanham v. Showalter 

, 382 MacLeod v. Showalter 

383 Showalter v. MacLeod 

. 383 Showalter v. Martinez 

, 384 Martinez v. Showalter 

, 385 Pollock V. Showalter . 

386 Showalter v. Pollock 

387 Taubenhaus v. Showalter 

388 Showalter v. Taubenhaus 
389 

K. POLLOCK'S GAMES. 

. 400 Pollock V. Gossip . . 

. 401 Hanham v. Pollock . 

. 402 Pollock V. Hanham . 

. 403 Pollock V. MacLeod . 

. 404 MacLeod v. Pollock . 

. 405 Pollock V. Martinez , 

. 406 Martinez v. Pollock . 

. 407 Martinez v. Pollock . 

. 407 Pollock V. Taubenhaus 

. 408 Taubenhaus v. Pollock 

Paob 

364 
365 
366 
368 
368 
369 
371 
372 
373 
375 
376 
377 
378 

390 
391 
392 
393 
394 
395 
396 
397 
398 
398 

409 
410 
411 
412 
412 
413 
414 
415 
416 
417 

E. BIRD'S GAMES. 

. 419 Bird v. Burille 423 

. 420 Burille v. Bird 424 

. 421 Bird v. Gossip 425 

. 422 Gossip V. Bird 426 

. 423 Hanham v. Bird 426 

CONTENTS. 

vn 

Pags 

Bird V. Hanham 427 

MacLeod v. Bird 428 

Bird V. MacLeod 429 

Martinez v. Bird • , , , , 430 

Bird V. Martinez . 
Taubenhaus v. Bird 
Bird V. Taubenhaus 

J, TAUBENHAUS' GAMES. 

Taubenhaus v. D, G. Baird 
D. G, Baird v. Taubenhaus 
J, W. Baird t. Taubenhaus 
Taubenhaus v. J. W. Baird 
Burille v. Taubenhaus . • 
Taubenhaus v. Burille . , 
Taubenhaus v. Gossip • . 
Gbssip T. Taubenhaus . , 
D.G. 
D. G. Baird v. J. W. Baird 
J. W, Baird v, D, G, Baird 
J. W. Baird y. D, a Baird 
Burille v. D. G. Baird , , 
D, G. Baird V, Burille , , 
Burille V, D. G. Baird . , 
Gossip V. D, G. Baird • . 

Hanham v, Taubenhaus 
Taubenhaus v. Hanham 
Hanham v. Taubenhaus 
MacLeod v. Taubenhaus 
Taubenhaus v. MacLeod 
Martinez y. Taubenhaus 
Taubenhaus v, Martinez 

,434 
.435 
.435 
,437 
.438 
,439 
,440 
,441 

BAIRD'S GAMES, 
. 448 D. G, Baird v. Gossip , 
, 449 Hanham v, D, G, Baird 
, 450 D, G, Baird v, Hanham 
, 450 D. G, Baird v. MacLeod 
, 451 MacLeod v. D. G. Baird 
, 452 D. G. Baird v. Martinez 
, 453 Martinez v, D. G. Baird 

0. P, BUEILLE'S GAMES. 

BuriUe v, J, W, Baird 
J. W, Baird v, Burille 
Burille v. J, W, Baird 
Burille v. Gossip . . 
Gk>8sip V. Burille , . 
Burille v. Gossip , , 
Hanham v. Burille , 

J, M. 

J. W, Baird v. Hanham 
Hanham v. J. W. Baird 
J. W. Baird v. Hanham 
Hanham v. Gossip , . 
Gossip V. Hanham , . 

G. H. 
Gossip V. J, W. Baird . 
J. W. Baird v. Gossip , 
Gossip V. J. W. Baird . 
Gossip V, MacLeod . . 

D, M, 

J. W, Baird v, Martinez 
Martinez v. J, W. Baird 

459 

460 
,460 
461 
462 
463 
464 

Burille v. Hanham 
Burille v, MacLeod 
MacLeod v. Burille 
Martinez v. Burille 
Burille v, Martinez 
Martinez v. Burille 

HANHASrS GAMES. 

, . 470 Gossip V, Hanham , 
. , 470 MacLeod v. Hanham • 
, , 471 Hanham v. MacLeod 
. . 472 Martinez v. Hanham . 
, . 473 Hanham v, Martinez , 

D. GOSSIP'S GAMES. 

, , 478 MacLeod v. Gossip , 
, , 479 Martinez v. Gossip . 
, . 479 Gossip V, Martinez , 

. .480 

MAETINEZ'S GAMES. 

, . 484 MacLeod v. Martinez 

, . 485 Martinez v, MacLeod 

J, W, BAIRD'S GAMES, 
J, W, Baird v. MacLeod . , 488 MacLeod v, J, W, Baird 

PA.OB 

.431 
.432 
.433 

442 
443 
444 
444 
445 
,446 
.447 

463 
454 
455 
455 
456 
.457 
457 

.464 
465 
.466 
.466 
.467 
.468 

473 

.474 

475 

475 

.476 

481 

.482 
483 

486 
487 

489 

Vm COMMITTEE BEPORT. 

SIXTH AMERICAN CHESS CONGRESS. 

COMMITTEE. 

PBESIDENT 

J. Spencer Turner. 

YIOE-PRESIDENTS 

Thomas Frere, 
Waller HoUaday, 
Eugene T. Westerfield. 

TBEASUBEB 

Frederick Kose. 

SEGBETABY 

William Steinitz. 

MEMBERS OF GENERAL COMMITTEE 

C. H. Bruel, Joachim Maltzan 

Dr. Louis Cohn, Dr. F. Mintz, 

L. D. Cohn, Ad. Moehle, 

H. Davidson, Frank Eudd, 

Dr. F. E. D'Oench, James A. Kuthven, 

W. W. Ellsworth, A. W. Shepard, 

R W. Ferguson, Dr. G. Simonson, 

J. C. Hume, F. W. Storck, 

Dr. C. B. Isaacson, Fred Wehle. 

JUDGES IK THE TOUBNAMENT 

H. Davidson, 
Wm. M. de Visser, 
Philip Bichardson. 

IX 

KEPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE SIXTH AMERICAN 

CHESS CONGRESS. 

New York, March, 1891. 

The organization of an International Chess Congress in America 
which would attract the competition of the greatest Chess masters of 
different nationalities has been for a long time the aim of lovers of 
the game in this country, and various efforts were made in that 
direction by the promoters of previous tournaments held in the 
United States. But all the movements for that purpose did not pro- 
duce the desired effect, and the five Chess Congresses which were 
carried through in America previous to the one which is the subject 
of this report, did not assume a real international character, though 
on each occasion some foreign residents entered into the competition. 
The chief obstacle to the realisation of the project was that when a 
movement for a tournament was started, public expectation generally 
allowed only a short time for preparations, and owing to the wide 
distances which separate Chess amateurs on this continent, the organ- 
izers of such meetings could only collect a comparatively small 
amount of funds for prizes during the few months which, according 
o custom, they had at their disposal. However, the interest in the 
game grew rapidly after the visits to America of Mr. Steinitz in 1882 
and of the late Mr. Zukertort in the following year, but more 
especially in consequence of the great match between the two masters 
for the Championship of the World, which was fought out on 
American gi'ound in 1886. 

In the early part of that year, while the above-named contest was 
in progress in New York, the desirability of holding an International 
Chess Congress in this country was strongly urged by Mr. Max Judd, 
of St. Louis, and Mr. F. M. Teed, of Brooklyn, at a dinner given by 
the New York Chess Club, and the general public took up the idea 
with great enthusiasm. It was felt that the country which at its First 
National Chess Congress had produced the immortal Paul Morphy, 
ought not to stand behind other nations in the promotion of the game. 
At the next general meeting of the club the famous problem com- 
poser, Mr. S. Loyd, who was then the President of the society, form- 
ally brought a motion before the club to organize an International 
Chess Congress under its auspices, and the resolution was unanim- 
ously adopted by the members, who charged a committee with pre- 
paring the preliminaries. The latter decided to form a provisional 
committee consisting of delegates from the principal American Chess 
Clubs. This plan proved, however, a failure after a short trial, for, 

X COMMITTEE REPORT. 

owing to various causes which need not be detailed, the attendance of 
members of the provisional committee fell off slowly, some of the clubs 
withdrew their support after a few meetings, and the whole movement 
was for some time in great danger of failing altogether. However* 
the work in favor of the project was kept alive by the persistent 
efforts of Messrs. Ellsworth, Dr. Jentz, Schubert, and Steinitz, and the 
Sixth American Chess Congress was finally and successfully in- 
augurated on the basis of a plan of which the main outlines were sug- 
gested by Mr. Steinitz. The scheme, as subsequently amended, com- 
prised in the first place the reconstitution of the Committee to the 
effect that it should form a body independent of any Chess society, 
and that amateurs of high standing and repute in the Chess world 
should be added to their number by unanimous ballot only. In that 
manner a most influential and impartial new Committee was formed 
within a few months, and the preparatory steps for the promotion of 
the project were energetically pushed forward. The other main 
features of the plan on which the Congress was ultimately organized 
are best presented in the subjoined first programme of the new Com- 
mittee, which was issued in January, 1887. 

" For centuries the games of Chess has stood preeminent among 
the intellectual pastimes of civilized nations. It has been cultivated 
and extolled by the wise and great of all ages, and notably in recent 
times by such exponents of modem progress as Leibnitz, Voltaire, 
, Franklin, Diderot, Lessing, Goethe, Buckle, eta, as affording an 
admirable training for the highest faculties of the human mind« 

" The estimation in which the game was held by our predecessors 
has found a responsive echo among the foremost thinkers of our own 
day. With the development of the arts and sciences the advance- 
ment of the royal game has steadily kept pace, and it is a gratifying 
sign of the progress of our time that the practice and the literature of 
the game have made rapid strides into popular favor ; indeed, so keen 
has been the interest excited by the Chess tournaments and matches 
between masters recently held in different parts of the world, that the 
telegraph has been brought into requisition for transmitting the 
results of such contests, and even the full scores of games have been 
cabled across the Ocean. 

" The importance of Chess Tournaments is abundantly attested by 
the enthusiasm which has been manifested for such contests on each 
occasion since the London Tournament of 1851, which brought out 
Anderssen, and more especially after the American Tournament of 
1857, which gave Paul Morphy to the world, and inaugurated the most 
brilliant era in the annals of Chess. 

COMMnTEE REPORT. XI 

"Apart from the popularizing influence of such contests upon the 
practice of the game, it can not be questioned that the serious play 
enforced by stringent rules and encouraged by adequate prizes can not 
fail, while developing the powers of the contestants, to result in the 
production of games ^hich, in the point of quality, must, as a rule, far 
surpass the specious results of ofF-hand skirmishes, and give enduring 
exemplars of Chess excellence. In support of this assertion, it may be 
stated, that many of the Chess masters of the present day have first 
come prominently into notice in such encounters, and that their success 
has been chiefly due to the training received in this severe school. 

"For twenty-five years Europe has taken the lead in encouraging 
and promoting the noble pastime ; and although within that period a 
strong desire has been frequently expressed on the part of many 
influential amateurs in this country to enter into a friendly rivalry 
with Europe in advancing the popularity of Chess by International 
tournaments, a concerted action among the various Chess organiza- 
tions throughout the country, which was deemed essential to the 
success of such an enterprise could not be secured, and the project 
was suflFered to languish. 

" With the view of giving practical expression to the wishes of the 
leading Chess players of this country, the Sixth American Chess 
Congre.ss has been formed. The Committee charged with the 
preparation of a plan for a tournament, which should be at once 
feasible and insure the fullest measure of justice to all concerned, 
participants and subscribers, herein present their preliminary pro- 
positions relying upbn the patriotism and enterprise of their fellow 
countrymen, and the public spirit and devotion to the cause of Chess 
of their co-workers everywhere, to aid them in their endeavor to 
inaugurate a contest which shall be memorable in years to come for 
its equitable regulations, and whose published record shall constitute 
an important addition to the literature of the game. It is believed, 
moreover, that the plan proposed, which differs in some important 
particulars from the methods heretofore established, will meet the 
approval of all true lovers of Chess, inasmuch as the novel features 
which form in a measure its essential character, seem adequate to 
eliminate, as far as may be, every element of chance, which has so 
often been a disappointing factor in tournaments. In view of the 
international character of the proposed Congress, the Committee now 
venture to appeal to amateurs throughout the world for their cordial 
support of this Chess enterprise." 

XII COMMITTEE REPORT. 

"In order that the scheme may be rendered, in a measure, self- 
supporting, it is proposed to publish an historical and critical account 
of the Congress and Tournament, which will be embodied in a hand- 
some volume, and issued to subscribers only. This book will be edited 
by Mr. W. Steinitz, and will contain all the games of the Tournament, 
and, should the subscriptions reach a sufficient amount to warrant the 
holding of a Minor and a Problem Tournament, the best games of the 
former, and at least a considerable portion of the competing 
problems will be incorporated. 

" The Book of the Tournament will not be purchasable after the 
Congress, since but one edition will be issued, and when all the 
subscribers have been supplied, the plates will be destroyed, thus 
enhancing the value of the work to the possessors. In order to afford 
subscribers the fullest protection, the Committee will make every 
reasonable endeavor to secure their rights in other countries. The 
price of the book will be $10, and the subscription-list will be open to 
all who may desire to possess the record of so important an event, 
and to aid in its accomplishment. 

" The edition will be strictly limited to the number of subscribers, 
but no subscriber shall be called upon for the amount of his 
subscription until he shall receive from the Committee a copy of the 
subscription-list showing that at least $5,000 has been raised from all 
sources. 

"It is the purpose of the Committee to make the Tournament a 
contest for the real championship of the world, thus avoiding the 
controversies and disputes that have so often arisen at the end of 
tournaments, which, owing to the absence of a regulation providing 
for a match, have rendered them fallacious tests of superiority. 

"In addition to the First Prize which will be $1,000, minimum, a 
trophy representing such championship will be provided and held 
subject to challenge under fair and equitable conditions, thus combining 
the advantages of a tournament and a championship match, to consist 
of at least seven games up, forming part of the tournament, and to be 
incorporated in the Book of the Congress. 

"It has been decided that a Two-Game Tournament shall be 
held, and that the rules of the London Tournament of 1883 shall, in 
the main, form the basis of the regulations to govern the contest 

" At least $5,000 should be realized from the sale of the book and 
from douations to enable the Committee to provide for the various 
prizes, after deducting all the expenses incidental to its publication. 
If tiwre than $5,000 be raised, the excess will be devoted in equitable 

COMMITTEE REPORT. XIII 

proportions to increasing the regular prizes either in number or in 
value and to such special prizes as the Committee may decide upon. 
It is also contemplated to institute a Minor and a Problem Tourna- 
ment in connection with the Congress, should sufficient funds for 
such a purpose be collected. 

'* As soon as practicable a complete set of rules and regulations 
for the government of the Congress will be made public, together with 
a list of the minimum prizes, for the information of the Chess 
community and for the guidance of those who may desire to enter as 
contestants. 

"Though the Committee hope to secure from subscription to the 
book the minimum funds required for holding the Tournament, they 
also appeal to generous lovers of the game for donations, in order 
to enable them to carry out their design in a manner which will place 
this enterprise above all others hitherto devised to enhance the 
popularity of our elegant pastime. 

In conclusion, the Committee invoke all lovers of our time- 
honored and noble game to make this an occasion for an earnest effort 
in aid of so important an enterprise, and especially do they call upon 
Americans to render that cordial and generous support which is 
essential to carry the work of the Congress to a successful issue. 

"W. W. Ellsworth, ) T**® Corresponding Committee 

" CONSTANTINE ScHUBERT, >• ^'^ ^^'c Sixth American 
"W. StEINITZ, ) ^•'^''s Conjrrcss." 

Consistent with the leading principles of this programme further 
amendments were subsequently made in the plan on which the Con- 
gress was to be founded, which gave general satisfaction. Efficient 
measures were provided for the purpose of enabling the holders 
of copies of the only authorized edition of the Book of the Congress 
to verify their genuineness. Among other pro^dsions for that purpose 
it was decided that the books should be numbered consecutively, and 
that the name of each original owner of a copy should be printed on 
the title page along with his number, and the collective subscription 
list with like names and numbers should also be published inside the 
book. It was also arranged that the copyright of the book should be 
secured in England and America, and that some of the pages of 
the book should be printed on paper containing a water-mark showing 
the figure of a Chess King, and the words, " Sixth American Chess 
Congress." 

\ 

XIV OOMMIMTEE REPORT. 

In order to ensure as much as possible the fairness and impar- 
tiality of the rules and regulations which were to guide the conduct of 
the chief tournament and of the contemplated Championship match^ 
the Committee determined that a preliminary set of rules should be 
published at least three months before the final rules were to be 
issued, so as to give the public, and especially intending compet- 
itors, an opportunity of criticising the proposed provisions and of 
suggesting amendments. The plan of the Committee was fully 
approved of in leading Chess organs all over the world. There was 
some opposition in America, as might have been expected, consider- 
ing the novelty of the enterprise, but the objections raised were 
merely of a suppositious character, and it is scarcely necessary to say 
that the assumptions or suspicions on which they were based were in 
no way subsequently verified by facts. In the main, however, 
the warmest support was given to the aims of the Congress in the 
American Chess columns, and notable among the supporters of the 
movement were Mr. Emmet Hamilton, of the Pioneer Press, St. Paul, 
Minn., Mr. Ben R. Foster, of the Glol>e Democrat, St. Louis, Mr. 
Miron J. Hazeltine, of the New York Clipper, Mr. P. Reichhelm, of 
the Philadelphia Times, Captain E. S. Huntington, of the Boston 
Weekly Post, and H. Bennecke, of Bahn-Frei New York. 

The response to the 9.ppeal of the Committee was a very fair one 
considering all the obstacles that had to be overcome. In estimating 
the difficulties that had to be encountered, it should be especially 
borne in mind that the minimum amount of $5,000, which the pro- 
moters of the Congress thought necessary for its organization, was 
more than treble the sum than what had been subscribed on any 
former occasion in America ior holding a tournament. The number 
and membership of Chess clubs and Chess associations was much 
smaller at the time when the movement was started than it is now, 
and this was also the first time that a scheme for organizing a Chess 
Congress was founded on expectations of at least partial support 
from countries outside of the one in which the tournament was to 
be held. 

In August, 1888, over $4,400 had already been promised, and as a 
considerable number of subscribers in and outside of the Committee 
had already voluntarily paid their contributions in advance, and 
further delay would have caused great disappointment, the Com- 
mittee felt justified in accepting a kind offer from Mr. Max Judd, of 
St. Louis, and Mr. J. Spencer Turner, of Brooklyn, who proposed to 
guarantee that the remaining $600 which were wanted in order to 

COMMITTEE REPORT. XV 

complete the required minimum of $5,000 would finally be raised by 
the Committee from all sources. This enabled the Committee to call 
for all the funds that had been subscribed, and to proceed vigorously 
with the preparation for the Congress and with the framing of the 
preliminary rules which were issued in the following October. Chiefly 
in consequence of suggestions from intending English competitors, 
some alterations were made in those rules, and the final programme 
was issued in January, 1889, as follows : 

"THE TOURNAMENT." 

The Tournament shall commence on Monday, March 25th, 1889, 
at one o'clock. 

PRIZES. 

First Prize $1,000.00 

Second " * . . 750.00 

Third " 600.00 

Fourth " 500.00 

Fifth " 400.00 

Sixth " 300.00 

Seventh " 200.00 

Special Prize for the best game, offered by 

Messrs. Fred. Wehle and Frank Rudd 50.00 

One quarter ($250.00) of the First Prize will be retained until after 
the conditions of the Championship Match have been fulfilled. 

RULE I. ' 

Entrance Fee and Deposit 
The Entrance Fee is $25.00, and in addition to this a deposit of 
$25.00 shall be made, subject to Rules V, VI, XXI. 

The Entrance Fee and Deposit must be paid to the Treasurer on 
or before Thursday, March 21st, 1889. 

RULE n. 
Two Games, Pairing and First Move. 
Eacli player shall play two games with every other player. The 
pairing for both rounds will be scheduled before the commencement 
of play. The players will draw for the First move, which shall be 
taken alternately afterward in the games between the same pair, 
except in conforming with Rule TIT. 

RULE HL 
Drawn Games. 
In the first round Draws shall count half for each player. In the 

XYI COMMITTEE REPORT. 

second round the first draw shall not count, but a second game shall 
be played (in which the first move shall be drawn by lot), and if it 
results in a draw it shall count half for both players. 

RULE IV. 
Ties among Prize Winners. 
The prizes will be awarded according to the final score. If two 
players tie for the First Prize, they shall play a match for the first 
winner of two games, exclusive of draws; but after four draws the 
match shall terminate, and if the score be even the prizes shall be 
divided ; but if either player shall be a game ahead he shall be 
declared the victor. 

In the case of ties for any other than the first prize, the players 
may agree to divide the prizes, or they may play off the tie, as in the 
case of a tie for first prize. 

RULE V. 

Withdrawing after First Round. 

At the close of the first round any player may withdraw from the 

Tournament, and his deposit of $25.00 will then be returned to him. 

He shall be entitled to any prizes falling to him according to his 

score. 

RULE VL 
Withdrawing before the close of either Round. 
Any player withdrawing from the Tournament before the com- 
pletion of either round, save with the sanction of the Committee, for 
sufficient cause shown, will forfeit his deposit of $25.00, and any prize 
he may be entitled to. 

RULE VII. 
Days Fixed for Play. 
In the First Round, Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, 
Fridays and Saturdays are days fixed for play; but in the Second 
Round, Thursday shall be a bye day. 

On each day of play every player shall play, from the commence- 
ment to the termination of the Tournament, with the player against 
whom he is scheduled to play. 

RULE vni. 

Bye Days. 
In the Second Round Thursdays are bye days, and on those days 
players who have made a drawn game must play against each other. 
All games unfinished on play days must be played off on these bye 

COMMITTEE BEPORT. XVII 

days; and when a player has to play oat an unfinished game and a 
draw, the former will have the precedence, but such player must play 
off the draw as soon as he has completed his unfinished game. When 
both players of an unfinished game standing over from a previous day 
have finished their game set down for any play day before the adjourn- 
ment, they can be called upon by the Committee to play out such 
unfinished game during the evening hours of play. Arrears must be 
played out at the end of the Tournament, if required by the 
Committee; but this will only be insisted on when the score for a 
prize is dependent on the result 

EULE IX. 
Hours Fixed for Play. 
Play will commence daily at 1 o'clock p. m. and continue till 
5 p. M. There will then be an adjournment of two hours, when play 
will be resumed until 11 p. m. Throughout these hours of play, 
both on play days and bye days, at least one member of the 
Committee will be present, to be referred to by the players in case of 
dispute. All questions of fact will be at once decided by such 
member of the Committee, who may take the evidence of spectators. 
The players have, however, a right of appeal to the Jury, and 
eventually to the Judges. 

EULE X. 

Time Limit and Clocks. 

The time limit is fixed at 15 moves an hour and will be regulated 
by stop-clocks. 

The player who exceeds the time limit forfeits the game, which 
will be scored as won by his opponent. It is the duty not only of his 
antagonist, but of any competitor aware of the fact, to bring at once 
to the notice of a member of the Committee present any infraction of 
the time limit, and he will decide on the facts of the case. No mere 
onlooker may interfere in any way, either as regards the time limit 
or any infraction of the ordinary rules of play, unless called on to give 
evidence as to facts. 

EULE XL 
Absentees. 

The clock of the player who does not appear at the hour fixed for 
play, or after the adjournment, will be set in motion by the member of 
the Committee present, and after a delay of one hour the game will 
be lost by the absentee under the time limit. If he arrives before the 
expiration of the hour, he must make 15 moves in whatever interval 

XVm COMMITTEE BEPOBT. 

of time is left at his disposal. Should neither player appear within 
one hour of the time fixed, the game shall be counted as lost 
against both players. 

KULE xn. 

Adjournments. 

At the hour fixed for adjournment the player whose turn it is to 
move must deliver his next move in writing, in a closed envelope, to 
the member oi the Committee present. Such envelopes will be 
opened after the adjournment bv the member of the Committee then 
present, in the presence of both the competitors, and such member 
will make on the board the move as written down. Consultation and 
analyzing moves on a Chess board during the adjournments are 
strictly prohibited, and any competitor proved guilty of the same shall 
be expelled from the Tournament by a three-fourths vote of the Jury. 

EULE XHL 
Scores of the Games. 

All the games are the property of the Sixth American Chess 
Congress. The winner of a game, or the first player in a drawn game, 
is bound to deliver, at the latest on the second play day, a correct, 
legible copy of the same to the member of the Committee present in 
the room, or any official appointed for the purpose. The non-com- 
pliance with this rule involves a penalty of $5.00, at the discretion of 
the Committee. 

KULE XIV. 

Arrangements between Players. 
Each competitor is bound in honor to play all his games with his 
full strength. No player is allowed to waive any exaction of a 
penalty, either under the rules of the Tournament or the general laws 
of Chess. All arrangements which may influence the final result of the 
Tournament, unless sanctioned by the Committee, are prohibited. 
Any first offer of any arrangement shall be made in the presence of a 
Committee-man. Any competitor violating this rule shall be expelled 
by a three-fourths majority vote of the Jury. 

KULE XV. 
Kules for Play. 
The Chess rules adopted for the Tournament are the American 
Code as laid down in the Book of the Fifth American Chess Congress. 

KULE XVL 
Unplayed Games. 
Li case of any competitor withdrawing from the Tournament 

OOIOCITTEE BEPOBT. XIX 

before he has completed either roand, his score will stand good, and the 
on played games will be forfeited to his opponents. But any com- 
petitor who may have a prospect of a prize, or a higher prize, by 
increasing his score, and who has lost or drawn against the retiring 
player, may claim to play a substitution game under Tournament 
rules against a competitor whom the Committee shall select, and who 
shall be as nearly as possible equal in strength with the retiring 
player. The result of such game shall in no way affect the score 
already made by the opponent selected, and shall be final for the 
competitor who claimed to play the substitution game. Any increase 
in the latter's score shall, however, only count against such competitors 
as have scored their games by default against the retiring player, but 
shall not count against players who have played with the retiring 
competitor over the board. 

BULE xvn. 

Cancellation of Tickets. 
The Committee reserve the right to cancel, at any time and for 
just cause, tickets for admission issued to visitors, and the Committee 
will refund the money for tickets so cancelled. 

BULE xvm. 

Forfeit 
Any player who has been expelled from the Tournament shall 
forfeit all rights to any prize and his entrance fee and deposit money. 

BULE XIX. 

Jury. 

The twelve Jurymen have been also appointed by the Committee 

and shall decide all questions between players not otherwise provided 

for. A player may, however, appeal from their decision on any point 

of law to the Judges. Seven Jurors shall constitute a quorum. 

BULE XX. 
Judges. 
The three Judges have been also appointed by the Committee and 
shall exercise the power of deciding appeals from the Jury. Their 
decision shall in all cases be final 

Any vacancies in the Jury or among the Judges shall be filled by 
the Committee. 

BULE XXL 
Modification of the Bules. 
The Committee reserve to themselves the power to modify any of 

XX COMMITTEE BEPORT. 

the rules, by and with the unanimous consent of the competitors. 
BULES FOE THE CHAMPIONSHIP MATCH. 

1. The winner of the Tournament shall be bound to play the 
Championship Match if duly challenged. He shall not be obliged to 
play for stakes, but may insist upon a maximum of $500.00 a side. 

To ensure compliance with this rule, one-fourth of the amount of 
the First Prize shall be held as a forfeit until the Championship 
Match is completed or the time for challenge has expired. 

2. The winner of the Tournament shall receive at least $250.00, 
whether he wins or loses the match. Special prizes may also be 
awarded if the funds allow. 

3. The match must begin within a month after the chief prize 
of the Tournament has been decided. 

4. If the winner of the Tournament be a resident and the 
challenger a foreign player, the Jury may decide when the match 
shall begin. 

5. If the winner of the Tournament be a foreign player, he shall 
have the option of fixing the time to any period within a month. 

6. The match shall be for the first seven games up, draws not 
counting, but after ten draws each draw shall count half for each 
player. The match shall be played at the rate of four games per 
week, at least If at the end of four weeks the match is not finished, 
the Committee may, at the request of either player, decide that the 
score as it shall stand at that time shall be decisive, with the' 
exception that the challenger must be at least one game ahead in 
order to be entitled to victory, while the winner of the Tournament 
shall be declared the victor of the match if he has made even games. 

7. The right of challenge shall belong to the prize winners in the 
order of their score. 

8. Any player winning less than third prize, non-prize winners 
and non-contestants shall be allowed to challenge only for Fellow- 
championship. 

9. If less than four European players enter the Tournament, the 
match contest shall not involve the championship of the World, but 
only that of the Sixth American Chess Congress. 

10. If a non-contestant desires to challenge for the Fellow- 
championship, he shall notify the Committee before the commence- 
ment of the Tournament, and shall deposit the maximum stakes as per 
Rule IL The Jury shall have power to overrule the right of any 
challenger (provided there may be more than one) by a three-fourth 
vot« at a full meetinp;, the vote to be taken by ayes and noes. The 

COMMITTEE REPORT. XXI 

Jury shall also decide other points of controversy that may arise 
during the Tournament or the match by majority vote, and its 
transactions shall be placed on record and published in the Book of 
the Congress." 

Two more special prizes of $50 each were subsequently added to 
those above-named, namely, one for the best game of the tournament, 
donated by Professor Isaac L. Rice, and one for the player who did 
not win any of the chief prizes but made the best score against the 
prize winners in the second round, donated by Dr. O. F. Jentz. 

In reference to the alterations made in the rules at the sug- 
gestion of some competitors, the Committee find it necessary to report 
in consequence of some regrettable incidents which occurred 
during the Congress, that it would have been more advisable to retain 
one of the original rules which gave the jury and the judges disciplin- 
ary powers over the players in case of any violation of the rules, or of 
conduct prejudicial to the interest of the Congress. 

They also find that the provision to the effect that no alteration 
in the rules could be made without the wianimous consent of all the 
players prevented arrangements which would have been otherwise 
greatly beneficial to the Congress. The Committee are now of opinion 
that, especially as regards regulations of minor importance, the organ- 
izers of tournaments ought to reserve to themselves the right of 
making alterations with the consent of two-third or, at the utmost, of 
three-fourths of the competitors. 

In due time no less than twenty competitors, the largest number 
that has ever taken part in a double round International tournament 
on a grand scale, had announced their intentions of competing in the 
contest, and it can fairly be said, that with few exceptions, the 
oontestants included the greatest Chess masters of the day, and of 
different nationalities. 

In that connection it is due to mention that the non-participation 
of Mr. Steinitz was a great disappointment to the majority of Chess 
amateurs. The Committee beg to say on this subject that they 
would have been highly gratified if Mr. Steinitz had been one of the 
contestants, and they are of opinion that whatever the result of his 
competition might have been, it would have in no way affected his 
impartiality as a critic in the Book of the Congress, which had 
been confided to his editorship. They also wish to state that they 
would have taken the fullest responsibility for any decision in matters 
of dispute in which eventually the interest of Mr. Steinitz might have 
been directly or indirectly involved, and being conscious that all 

XXn COMMITTEE BEPOBT. 

their members only wished fair play to prevail, they would not have 
been embarrassed 'or influenced in the least by the fact that 
Mr. Steinitz had been one of the principal promoters of the Congress. 
However, Mr. Steinitz seems to have entertained different opinions in 
the matter, and having previously announced in the International 
Chess Magazine^ in consequence of some adverse criticism in the press, 
that he did not intend to join the contest, he adhered to that resolu- 
tion. The Committee, though they respect the motives of Mr. 
Steinitz, beg to say that his participation would have greatly added to 
the interest of the tournament 

The Congress was inaugurated by a dinner given by the Man- 
hattan Chess Club, to which the players and the members of the 
Congress Committee were invited. The foreign competitors were 
cordially welcomed by various speakers, and in return the former 
expressed their highest satisfaction with the programme and the 
preliminary arrangements of the Committee. 

The tournament was formally opened in commodious rooms at 
No. 8, Union Square, with an appropriate and eloquent speech by the 
President of the Congress, Mr. J. Spencer Turner, and some slight 
amendments to the rules were passed by unanimous consent of the 
players. 

In like manner it was decided by all the players that Messrs. 
Delmar and Showalter should be admitted as competitors, though 
they had failed to pay their entrance fees in proper time provided by 
the rules. A special concession was also made to Mr. Delmar, who, 
in consideration of his business engagements, was allowed to com- 
mence his games one hour later in the afternoon than the other 
players. The pairing then took place, and the tournament was 
started on the same afternoon. 

The names of the players are as follows : 

D. G. Baird, New York; J. W. Baird, New York; H. E. Bird,' 

England; J. H. Blackbume, England; C. F. Burille, Boston, Mass.; 

A. Burn, England ; E. Delmar, New York ; G. H. D. Gossip, England ; 

L Gunsberg, England; J. M. Hanham, New York; Max Judd, 

St. Louis, Mo.; S. Lipschutz, New York; N. MacLeod, Canada; 

D. M. Martinez, Philadelphia, Pa.; J. Mason, England; W. H. K. 

Pollock, England; J. W. Showalter, Georgetown, Ky.; J. Taubenhaus, 

Paris, France; M. Tschigorin, St Petersburg, Eussia; and Max 

Weiss, Vienna. 

Most of the questions that arose in the course of the contest were 

of little importance and were settled at once by the member of 

the Plaving Committee present. Only one case of dispute was 

GOMMITTEE BEPOBT. XXHT 

brought before the jury and was finally decided upon by the judges 
on appeal in reference to points of law. It happened between Messrs. 
Judd and Tschigorin in a game in the first round. On the 46th 
move Mr. Judd claimed the application of the fifty moves time limit, 
according to the code of the United States Chess Association. The Um- 
pire, Mr. Bose, allowed the claim, but at the end of fifty moves, at the 
request of Mr. Tschigorin, ordered the game to proceed further. This 
decision Mr. Judd declined to accept and claimed a draw at once, 
without continuing the game under protest, as regards the point of 
law which he might have done. The judges finally decided that Mr. 
Judd hail forfeited the game anyhow by not abiding with the decision 
of the Umpire, as distinctly provided in the same code. At the 
recommendation of the judges the law on the subject was subse- 
quently changed, by unanimous consent of the players, to the effect 
that in case a fifty move count has been demanded and allowed, the 
Umpire shall, at the expiration of fifty moves, determine whether or 
not the game is a draw, subject to appeal to the jury. 

The tournament proceeded without interruption in the manner 
provided by the programme, with the exception of the day of the 
Centennial celebration, which had been appointed a legal holiday by 
the legislature, and the day previous on account of the preparations 
for the festive procession which had to pass the place of meeting 
of the Congress, and must have greatly disturbed the players. 
Almost all the competitors had, however, the satisfaction of witnessing 
the grand and rare spectacle of the Centennial festivity from the . 
windows of the room in which the tournament was conducted. 

At the end of the tournament there was a tie between M. Tschig- 
orin, of Si Petersburg, and Herr Max Weiss, of Vienna. Both these 
masters expressed a desire not to be compelled to play a champion- 
ship match, as provided by the rules, and as there was no other 
challenge for the title and the prizes offered for the purpose, the 
Committee decided that this contest should not take place. 

Although it had been determined to inaugurate the Congress if a 
minimum sum of $5,000 was subscribed, the estimate of the Com- 
mittee of the actual costs of the tournament fuid of the issue of the 
Book of the Congress naturally exceeded that sum, but then it was 
expected that the increase of expenditure would be more than 
covered by the proceeds from gate monies of the visitors, the 
entrance fees of the players, additional subscriptions and donations, 
etc. At the beginning of the tournament the main source of income 
on which the Committee had relied, namely, the sales of visitors' 

XXrV COMMITTEE REPORT. 

tickets was large, and there seemed to be reasonable prospects that 
the Committee would have a balance over the expenditures to which 
they already stood pledged. 

At. this time the competitors in the tournament joined unanim- 
ously in a petition to the Committee requesting that the entrance 
fees, amounting to $500, should be divided among the losers as 
consolation prizes according to the Gelbfuhs system. The petition 
contained a quite unprecedented request on the part of the players, 
and was altogether extraordinary, considering that it put a sort of 
moral pressure on the Committee to dispose eventually in favor of 
the competitors in the 'Master Tournament of a very considerable 
portion of the funds which might have been used for other purposes 
mentioned in the programme, like the Minor Tournament, or a 
problem competition. The Committee, nevertheless, assented to the 
proposition on the distinct condition, however, that all the previously 
incurred liabilities and obligations of the Congress should be first 
discharged. 

But at the conclusion of the tournament, the Committee found 
that they had to face a large deficit as regards the costs of the issue 
of the Book, to which they stood pledged. In stating the causes of 
this unfortunate disappointment, the Committee regret to announce 
that a considerable number of subscribers failed to honor their 
subscriptions. There was also a falling off in the second round in the 
receipts from the gate money, and hardly anything was realized 
from that source during the last few weeks of the tournament chiefly 
owing to the impossibility of securing the unanimous consent of all 
the players to a slight change in thehours of play during the 
evening which is the best time for an exhibition in the City of New 
York. Under all the circumsitances, however, the condition which 
was positively attached to the decision of the Committee in reference 
to the consolation prizes petitioned for by the competitors had not 
been fulfill d, and the Committee found it impossible to carry out 
their contingent promise in that respect 

The deficit in the finances was subsequently covered by supple- 
mentary subscriptions which were chiefly raised among the members 
of the Committee, but also by an advance of some of its members on 
about thirty extra copies which the Committee ordered to be addition- 
ally printed. In making this statement the Committee beg to point 
out tliat they have in no way evaded the spirit or the letter of their 
original programme, for they were entitled to the course taken in 
consequence of a veiy liberal concession on the part of Mr. Steinitz, 

OOMMTTTEE BEPOBT. XXV 

who, acoording to liis original agreement with the Committee, had a 
claim for his literary services as editor of the book on a much larger 
nomber of copies than were additionally issued. But owing to the 
un&Torable financial condition of the funds, Mr. Steinitz ceded all 
his rights to the Committee. After recording a cordial vote of 
thanks to Mr. Steinitz, the Committee arranged that he should receive 
ten extra copies besides a remuneration of $500 which was as much 
as the Committee could afford to pay, and then it was decided that 
the extra copies to which Mr. Steinitz would have been entitled 
should be appropriated and used in the above described manner for 
the purpose of recovering expenses. 

The special thanks of the Committee are due to the Manhattan 
Chess Club and the Brooklyn Chess Club who have allowed the 
Congress the use of their rooms for holding the meetings of the Com- 
mittee. Special votes of cordial thanks of the Committee were also 
recorded to the Hon. Treasurer, Mr. F. Hose, who, at great sacrifice of 
time and of private expenses in connection with the Congress, fulfilled 
the arduous and responsible duties of his office, and to Dr. F. Mintz, 
who, with very few exceptions, attended daily during play hours at 
the tournament and acted most efficiently as Umpire on behalf of the 
Committee. 

The Committee also acknowledge with gratification the compli- 
ment paid to the Congress by the Anderssen Schach Club of Breslau, 
which society sent one of their prominent members, Herr Paul von 
Frankenberg, as a special representative to vdtness the master tourna- 
ment 

The numbering of the books has been regulated as follows : Copy 
No. 1 was offered to the highest bidder and the announcement that 
such a disposition would be made was published in the International 
Chess Magazine in June, 1889, and was repeated in that journal 
several times. The privilege of possessing that book was acquired by 
Mr. C. H. Bruel for the extra sum of $30, outside of his subscriptions. 
Book No. 2 was awarded to the President, Mr. J. Spencer Turner, 
who, through his influence and active co-operation, had greatly aided 
the Committee in their efforts. For the next numbers donators or 
subscribers of more than one copy were drawn in groups according to 
the amount of their contributions. Subscribers of single copies are 
numbered according to date of payment of their subscriptions. 

The final arrangemeuts in reference to the printing and issue of 
the Book of the Congress were entrusted to a committee consisting of 
Dr. Louis Cohn, and Messrs. Fr^re, HoUaday, Moehle, and Steinitz. 

XXVI 

SCORfi OP THE TOURNAMENT. 

PLAYERS. 

M. Tschigorin 
Max Weiss 
I. GuQsberg . 
J. H. Blackbume 
A. Burn . . 
S. Lipschutz . 
J. Mason . 
Max Judd* . 
E. Delmar 
J. W. Showalter 
W. H. K PoUock* 
H. E. Bird . . 
J. Taubenhaus 
D. G. Baird . . 

C. F. Burille . . 
J. M. Hanham 
G.H.D. Gossip . 

D. M. Martinez . 
J. W. Baird . . 
N. MacLeod . 

— OOil 

10^1 
0001 

— 00 

1000 

10 H 

H40 

1040 

01 

iOOOiO 

10 iO 

J0« 

0011 

H 
H 

10 
00 

iOOOOOiO 

01 

rll 

rll 

>10 

)11 

11 

11 

11 

101 

111 

11 

11 

111 

[lOil 

Oi 

00 iO 

00 il 

JO 

il 
io 
11 io 

io 

oo« 

io 

i04i 

10 iO 

01 

0000 

00 

01 

10 iO 
00 

iOOO 

00 
01 
00 
00 
00 
00 
0000 

29 

29 

28i 

27 

26 

25i 

22 

20 

18 

18 

17i 

17 

17 

16 

16 

14 

184 

18i 

7 

£ 

tie ) 

l8tA> 

8d 

4th 
5th 
6th 
7th 

* Messrs. Jadd and Pollock divided the special prize for the best score 
against the prize winners in the second round. 

TBEASUBEB 8 AOGOUNT. 

xxvn 

0 

o 

P 
P 

< 

s 

O 

a 

06 T-i t* 
tH JO '^ 

SO Od t* 
O O 00 

0} lo S S Cb 

CO^ t^ tH to « 

T-T 00* TH* 

s 

s 

00 

I 

§ 

g 

o 

! 
1 

d 
a 

S 

I 

I 

PQ 

I 
i| 

<o 

2 o 

g,.g g ^- O 

^l .•to* 

Ph I] § -o o «M 

^ £§£||||| 

C2: Q Oi 0Li QQ O 

^ss§sss§ 

s 

£S 

s 

«» eo » ^ rt -< 

00 :H 

g 

CO 

w ef 

00 

i i 5 a^*? a 

1 

d 
o 

I 

SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 

Name and Addreaa 

Addicks, J. Edward, Boston, Mass. . 

Adler, Dr. J., New York 

Academischer Schach Qub, Munchen, Germany 

Alapin, Simon, St. Petersburg, Russia 

Albany Chess Club, Albany, New York 

Allen, Herbert M., Boston, Mass. 

Anderson, Dr. H. A. C, New York . 

Angresius, C. F., New York . 

Anthony, Edwyn, Hereford, England 

ArgaU, H. K., Whitchurch, England 

Arnold, Dr. A. B., San Francisco, Cal. 

Austin, Geo. M., Boston, Mass. 

Bachmann, S., New York 

Baird, John W., New York 

Ballantine, Wm. A., New York 

Barclay, A. Chas., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Beethoven Club, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil 

Beinecke, B., New York . 

Bell, Wilson, New York . 

Bennecke, H., New York 

Bennecke, L., Chicago, HI. 

Bennett, H. J., FaU River, Mass. 

Berendsohn, S., New York 

Berliner Schachgesellschaft, Berlin, Germany 

Bertolette, Levi A., Wilmington, Del 

Bigelow, Dr. A. T., St. Paul, Minn. 

Bijur, Nathan, New York 

Bissell, Judge J. B., Denver, Col. 

nianchard, J. G., New Orleans, La. 

Blathy, O. T., Buda-Pest, Hungary 

Boll, Rev. J. A., Gettysburg, Pa. 

. $95 

t 
«20 

1 

80, 81 

10 

417 

10 

290 

10 

458 

10 

422 

10 

408 

10 

421 

10 

414 

10 

206 

10 

240 

10 

285 

10 

316 

10 

857 

10 

245 

10 

314 

10 

279 

10 

257 

10 

881 

10 

886 

20 

105, 106 

10 

183 

10 

272 

10 

244 

10 

212 

10 

251 

10 

217 

10 

444 

10 

167 

10 

801 

10 

209 

10 

145 

SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 

XXIX 

Name and Address 

Bonner, Robert, Providence, R. I. . 

Boskowitz, J., New York 

Boston Chess Clnb, Boston, Mass. 

Bostwick, O. M., New York 

Briggs, Rev. H. C, Plymouth, England 

Briggs, Geo. E., Peekskill, N. Y. 

Bristol, John I. D., New York . 

Brock, D. T., Chicago, HI. 

Brown, Henry H., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Brown, H. G. A., Croydon, England 

Brown, Isaac M., Leeds, England 

Bruel, C. H., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 

Buck, Chas. F., New Orleans, La. 

Bucklin, (3eo., Providence, R. I. 

Bum, Amos, Liverpool, England 

Bums, A., Melbourne, Australia 

Carpenter, Qeo. E., Tarrytovm, N. 

Carpenter, R. P., Neodesha, Kan. 

Cartwright, Bmce, Honolulu, H. I. 

Cassel, Hartwig, New York 

Chambers, John D., Glasgow, Scotland 

Champion of the New York Stoats Zeitung 

spondence Tournament, 1890 
Champion, C. P. , Quebec, Canada . 
Charlick, H., Adelaide, Australia 
Chess EjditoTs' Association, Detroit, Mich . 
Chittenden, S. B. Jr., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Cincinnati Chess Club, Cincinnati, O. 
City of London Chess Club, London, England 
Clark, Henry C, Providence, R. I. . 
" Clipper," New York, .... 
Clnb de Ajedrez de la Habana, Havana, Cuba 
Club Intemacional, Panama, Colombia 
Cobb, D. McLeod, Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Cohn, Dr. Louis, New York 
Cohn, Louis D., New York 
Cohn, W. D., New York 
Colony, A. L., Oleon, N. Y. . 
Columbia Chess Club, New York 
Congdon, General James A. , Syracuse, N. Y. 
Conill, Enrique, Havana, Cuba 
Con rath, Adam, Milwaukee, Wis. 

corre- 

g 

. 

1 

1 

; 

1 

10 

824 

10 

470 

10 

821 

10 

190 

10 

288 

2 

10 

447 

10 

810 

10 

215 

10 

150 

10 

462 

10 

487 

70 

60 

1, & 6 to 1( 

10 

10 

50 

10 

820 

10 

424 

15 

10 

48 

10 

146 

10 

194 

10 

474 

10 

468 

10 

488 

10 

467 

10 

168 

10 

866 

10 

- 

10 

804 

10 

218 

10 

420 

10 

148 

15 

10 

45 

10 

10 

55 

10 

465 

10 

415 

80 

99, 100, 101 

80 

96, 97, 98 

10 

156 

10 

409 

10 

865 

10 

888 

10 

185 

10 

162 

XXX 

SUBSCRIPTION List. 

Name and Address 

Converse, E. C, New York 
Cook, Eugene B., Hoboken, N. J. 
Cowan, N. Dominguez, City of Mexico 
Cox, James, Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Crane, L. T., Brownsville, Cal. 
Crane, F. W. C, Lyons' Farms, N. 
Craske, Robert, Boston, Mass. 
Creswicke, Henry, Barrie, Canada 
Cross, R. J., New York . 
Cunningham, J. G., London, England 
Dalton, Dr. W. R., New York 
Davidson, H., New York 
Davieson, Dr. Samuel, Chicago, HI. 
Decknatel, J. A., New York 
Deckner, F. W., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
De Fonmartin, H., Portsea, England 
Delehanty, E. J., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Dennis, C. E., Bayonne, N. J. 
Densmore, D. J., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
De Riviere, J. Amous, Paris, France 
De Soyres, Rev. John, St. John, N. B. 
De Terbecq, E. Huyttens, Liege, Belgium 
De Thomsen, Baron C, New York . 
De Visser, W. M., New York . 
Diggs, I. Ross, Baltimore, Md. 
D'Oench, Dr. P. E., New York 
Douglas, John A., New York . 
Dreher, C. W. C, Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Dreier, Carl, Chicago, 111. 
Edwards, Chas. N., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Ellsworth, Wm., Brooklyn, N. ¥. 
Ellsworth, W. W., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Elson, Jacob, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Eno, W. P., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Erkenbrecher, Albert, Cincinnati, O. 
Erskine, Oswald, St. Boswell's, Scotland 
Ettlinger, A., New York . 
Euphrat, S., Cincinnati, O. 
Faehndrich, Hugo, Buda-Pest . 
Ferguson, R. W., Flushing, L. 1. 
Ferrell, Dr. H. V., Carterville, 111. . 
Ferris, W. J., Newcastle, Del. 

1 

1 

10 

1 

411 

5 

10 

7a 

5 

10 

65 

25 

10 

82 

10 

187 

10 

185 

10 

168 

10 

10 

53 

10 

470 

10 

859 

10 

848 

10 

826 

10 

840 

10 

441 

10 

271 

10 

825 

10 

227 

10 

277 

10 

155 

10 

221 

10 

282 

10 

262 

10 

898 

10 

807 

10 

844 

10 

890 

10 

305 

10 

229 

10 

216 

10 

874 

10 

820 

12.67 

10 

46 

10 

276 

10 

151 

10 

129 

10 

810 

10 

871 

10 

147 

10 

860 

20 

111, 112 

10 

158 

10 

222 

■l 

SUB80BIFTI0N liBT. 

KITI 

Nftme and Address 

Pinlay, D. J., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Fish, George H., New York 

Flaimer, Chas., Columbus, Kan 

Ford, E. A., New York . 

Foster, Ben. R., St Louis, Mo. 

Prank, Philip, New York 

Frankenberg, Paul von, Breslau, Germany 

Frazer, Dr. Persifor, Philadelphia, Pa 

Frtre, Thos., New York . 

Transferred to Fr^re Eugene, Brooklyn, N 
,. Fr^re Waller, 
Puller, W. J, A., New York . 
Galveston Chess Club, Galveston, Texas 
Gamble, James, Belfast, Ireland ' 
Gilley, E. a, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Glasgow Chess Club, Gla^^w, Scotland 
Golmayo, Celso, Havana, Cuba 
Gomes, J. Coelho, Lisbon, Portugal . 
Gorham, H. M,, Gold Hill, Nevada . 
Grant, James, New York 
Green, Robert P., Liverpool, England 
Greene, Rev. J., M.A., Bostrevor, Clifton, England 
Gross, H. B., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Grutter, A. L., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Haas, Frederic, New York 
Haldeman, I>r. H. W., Girard, Kan . 
Hall, M. G., Portland, Oregon . 
Hamburger, Felix, New York . 
Hamel, John B., Philadelphia, Pa. . 
Hamilton, Emmet, St Paul, Minn . 
Hamilton, K J., New Orleans, La. . 
Hard, Ctoorge M., New York . 
Hartshome, R. B., New York . 
Hasse, Dr. F., Chicago, 111. 
Hawkins, X., Springfield, Mo. . 
Hazeltine, Miion, Compton Vllle, N. H. 
Hebard, George, Rochester, N. Y. . 
Heintz, George, Annapolis, Md. 
Hellwitz, L. H., New York 
Henderson, J., Montreal, Canada 
Henry, T. W., Sanford, Fla. 
Heppenheimer, Dr. P. C, New York 
Herrera, J. M., Havana, Caba 

I 

8 ^. 

a 

1 

10 

278 

10 

886 

10 

489 

10 

480 

10 

178 

10 

386 

10 

877 

10 

144 

80 

90, 91, 

10 

91 
220 

10 

476 

10 

446 

10 

888 

10 

897 

6 10 

71 

10 10 

48 

10 

180 

10 

896 

10 

292 

10 

486 

16 10 

44 

10 

195 

10 

247 

10 

401 

10 

429 

10 

469 

10 

255 

10 

188 

10 

822 

10 

456 

10 

280 

10 

266 

10 

842 

6 10 

72 

10 

451 

10 

882 

10 

880 

10 

180 

10 

265 

10 
10 

872 
899 

i:. 

xxxM 

SUBSCBIFriON LIST. 

Name and Address 

Herzog, Max, New York 

Heydebrand, nnd der Lasa, T. von, Wiesbaden, Ger 

many ..... 
Hibbard, Chas. M., New York . 
Hicks, T. M. B., Williamsport, Pa. • 
Hinckle, C. F., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Hoeber, W. A., Mount Vernon, N. Y. 
Hoeland, Adolph H., New York 
Hoelke, E., St. Louis, Mo. 
Hoeninghaus, F., New York . 
Hoffer, L., London, England, . 
Hoffman, C. E., New York 
Holl, Greorge, New York 
Holladay, Professor Waller, New York 
Holman, John O., St. Louis, Mo 
Holz;ichuh, J. J., Minneapolis, Minn 
Homatow, T. Y., Taschkent, Russia 
Hopkins, J. S. D., Parrott, Colorado 
Horton, F. M., New York 
Horton, Harding S., New York 
Hughes, George N., Baltimore, Md, 
Hulse, J. W., St. Louis, Mo. . 
Hume, J. C, New York . 
Hunt, M. S., Hamilton, Bermuda 
Huntington, Captain E. S., Boston, Mass. 
Hutchins, Dr. H. S., Batavia, N. Y. 
Hyde, J. E. Hindon, New York 
Ickelheimer, H. R., New York 
Ingalls, C. H., New York 
Isaacson, Dr. Chas. B., New York 
Jackson, Right Rev. Dr. Henry Melville, Bishop of 

Alabama, Montgomery, Alabama 
Jacoby, Gustav, New York 
Jeanes, Henry S. , Philadelphia, Pa 
Jentz, Dr. O. F., New York . 
Jervis, B. F., Ithaca, N. Y. . 
Jokisch, L. H., Gentralia, 111. . 
Josephi, J., New York . 
Josephson, A., Brooklyn, New York 
Judd, Max, St. Louis, Mo. 
Judd, Maurice, Toledo, O. 
Kaiser, J. A., Philadelphia, Pa. 

1 1 

10 

1 
223 

6 10 

69 

10 

861 

10 

164 

10 

407 

5 10 

^64 

10 

186 

10 

172 

10 

892 

10 

207 

10 

853 

10 

188 

80 

102, 103, 104 

10 

252 

10 

191 

10 

267 

10 

226 

10 

348 

10 

268 

10 

150 

10 

394 

20 

118, 114 

10 

242 

5 10 

63 

10 

442 

10 

440 

10 

443 

10 

128 

10 

341 

10 

385 

10 

331 

10 

154 

15 10 

3 

10 

157 

10 

152 

10 

484 

10 

176 

10 40 

49 to 52 

10 260 

SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 

xxxra 

Name and Address 

Kaltenbach, E. J., New York . 
Kaltenbach, H. J., New York . 
Kann, Max, Paris, France 
Eean, A. D., Orillia, Canada . 
Kellogg, A. B., Buffalo, N. Y. . 
Kinnier, John A., Lynchburg, Va. 
Einzbach, F., Cincinnati, O. . 
Knapp, J. P. , New York . 
Eoehler, G., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Euhne, F. W., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Eunstadter, J. J., New York . 
Euntz, L., Sweet Spring, Mo. . 
La Bourdonnais Chess Club, New York. 
Lambert, C. J., Glenoak, Exeter, England 
Langdon, Francis E., Jr., Portsmouth, N. 
Latham, Fredk. G., Charleston, S. C. 
Lee, James M., Pittsfield, Mass. 
Leer burger, Sig., New York 
Lehmann, Ernest, London, England . 
Lester, W. E., Gold Hill, Nev. 
Lewis, Dr. £. R., Indianapolis, Ind. . 
L^hommede, G. A., Eansas City, Mo. 
lichtenstein, B., New York, 
lindberg, L. E, Chicago, 111. 
lipschutz, S., New York 
liTerpool Chess Club, liyerpool, England 
Long, Thomas, Dublin, Ireland 
Loveman, Adolf, Nashville, Tenn. . 
Lucas, Carroll, Menomonie, Wis. 
Lakenbach, J. W., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Lurie, Dr. J. H., New York 
Lyman, H. D., New York 
Mackey, James, Eob^, Japan . 
Macleod, G. W., Calcutta, India 
Mac Leod, E. J., B.A., Quebec, Canada 
ilaltzan, Joachim, New York . 
Manhattan CSiess Club, New York 
Manvel, F. C, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Marquand, Joseph, New York . 
Marshall, A. W., Adelaide, Australia 
Martin, Frederick, New York . 
Martinez, A., New York . 

H. 

Donation 
SubscrfpUon 

1 

s 

?5 

10 

870 

10 

475 

10 

241 

10 

293 

10 

138 

10 

181 

10 

148 

10 

879 

10 

428 

10 

254 

10 

482 

10 

210 

10 

410 

10 

461 

10 

395 

10 

384 

10 

160 • 

10 

416 

10 10 

67 

10 

181 

10 

175 

10 

214 

10 

483 

10 

818 

10 

127 

10 

425 

10 10 

58 

10 

225 

10 

171 

10 

327 

10 

854 

10 

134 

10 

486 

10 

295 

10 

427 

10 

345 

20 

107, 108 

10 

298 

10 

889 

10 

367 

10 

368 

10 

203 

J_, 

xxxrv 

SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 

Name and Address 

Maynard, G. V., New York 
McAfee, Dickerson, Quincy III. 
McAllister, Geo. W., Philadelphia, Pa. 
McConnell, James, New Orleans, La. 
McKendrick, Q. K., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Mc Williams, R. E., Buffalo, New York 
Mead, F. B., Orange, N. J. . 
Meredith, Wm., Merehantville, N. J. 
Merian, P. A., New York 
Messiter R. P., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Meyer, Chas. K-, Preeport, 111. 
Meyer, Robert, Shanghai, China 
Miphaelis, Major O. E., Augusta, Me. 
Milburn, James, St. Louis, Mo. 
Miller, Daniel, Baltimore, Md. 
Mimms, John H., St. Albans, Vt. 
Minor, Gov. W. T., Stamford, Conn. 
Mintz, Dr. F., New York 
Mitchell, Dr. E. D., Memphis, Tenn. 
Mohle, Adolphe, New York 
Moliner, Adolfo, Havana, Cuba 
Montreal, Chess Club, Montreal, Canada 
Morgan, Mordecai, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Morgan, J. M., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Morrell, Daniel, Hartford, Conn. 
Morse, J. E., Bayonne, N. J. . 
Napoleon, Arthur, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 
Neuer Wiener Schachclub, Wien, Austria 
Neugass, C Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Neustadtl, Dr. Hermann, Prague, Austria 
Newark Chess Club, Newark, N. J. . 
New Orleans Chess Checker and Whist 

Orleans, La. . . . , 

New York Turn Verein, New York . 
Nichols, S. S., Galveston, Texas 
Nicholson, Dr. J. E., Oakland, Cal. . 
Nicholson, Frank, Phoenix, Arizona . 
Northcroft, Henry, Sevenoaks, England 
O'Farrell, Patrick, Washington, D. C. 
O'Higgins, P. C, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Orr, W. B„ Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Osborne, W. F., An^onia, Conn. 
Paddock, William L., Pittsfield, Mass. 

Club, 

New 

1 

c 

1 

eg 

10 

s 

3 

1 

437 

10 

253 

10 

208 

10 

284 

10 

311 

10 

346 

10 

132 

10 

165 

20 

40 

38 to 41 

10 

452 

10 

224 

10 

457 
193 ' 

10 

10 

233 

10 

258 

10 

363 

10 

323 

10 

356 

10 

464 

80 

93, 94, 95 

5 

10 

68 

10 

205 

10 

306 

10 

303 

10 

380 

10 

334 

10 

412 . 

10 

460 

10 

315 

10 

235 

10 

174 

10 

291 

10 

302 

10 

169 

10 

454 

10 

274 

20 

10 

42 

10 

404 

10 

294 

10 

418 

10 

249 

10 

398 

SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 

XXXV 

Name and Address 

Paredes, Leon, Havana, Cuba. 

Pat<»rson, William S., New York 

Paull, Irwin, Wheeling, W. Va. 

Peake, Alfred S., Clontarf, Dublin, Ireland. 

Pendlebury, R., Cambridge, England. 

Pendleton, Thomas F., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Peres, Hard wig, Memphis, Tenn. 

Perrin, Frederick, Brooklyn, N. Y. . 

Phoenix Chess Club, Dublin, Ireland. 

Ponce, Alberto, Havana, Cuba. 

Pozo, Andres Fernandez, Asturias, Gijon, Spain 

Preti, Numa, Paris, France. 

Price, J. H., Wilmington, Del. 

Providence Chess Club, Providence, R. I. 

Prj'or, Roger A., Jr., New York 

Q, E. K, 

Rabotkin. Wladirair, St. Petersburg, Russia. 

Ramsey, R. H., Philadelphia, Pa. . 

Raymond, R, W^, Brooklyn, N. Y. . 

Re<iding, Jcseph D. , San Francisco, Cal. 

Redwine, J. B., Atlanta, Ga. . 

Reynolds, John, New York 

Rice, Professor Isaac L., New York 

Rice, Charles M, Worcester, Mass. . 

Richardson, Dr. Horace, Boston, Mass. 

Richardson, Clarence B., Clieyenne, W. T. 

Richardson, P., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Richmond Chess Club, Richmond, Va. 

Riedel, Dr. E. H., New York . 

Robinson, A. K., Philadelphia, Pa. . 

Rockwell, Col. A. F., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Rode. Fred., Chicago, 111. 

Rogers, Howard J., Albany, N. Y. . 

Rohrer, Daniel, Worthington, Minn. 

Rolfe, George B., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 

Rose F., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Rosenberg, H., Providence, R. I. 

Ross, R. M. Calcutta, India 

Rother, R. M., Baltimore, Md. 

Rothschild, Baron Albert von, Vienna, Austria 

Rothschild, Leopold, New York 

Rowland, T. B., Clontarf, Dublin, Ireland 

c 
o 
O 

'C 

1 

10 

851 

10 

203 

10 

406 

10 

482 

10 

456 

10 

419 

10 

448 

10 

196 

10 

431 

10 

74 

10 

281 

10 

261 

10 

182 

10 

141 

10 

349 

10 

459 

10 

266 • 

10 

430 

10 

248 

10 

485 

10 

149 

10 

161 

10 

4 

10 

388 

10 

264 

10 

383 

10 

135 

10 

309 

10 

289 

10 

231 

10 

835 

10 

466 

10 

308 

10 

137 

50 

77 to 81 

10 

143 

10 

296 

10 

400 

10 

347 

10 

246 

10 

488 

XXXVI 

SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 

Name and Address 

Rowse, E. S., St. Louis, Mo. . 

Rudd, Frank, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Rumsey, J. Edward, Westfield, N. J. 

Rush, Murray, Radnor, Pa. 

Russell, James A., Baltimore, Md. . 

Rutherford, W. Watson, Liverpool, England. 

Ruthven, James A. , New York 

Salx)nzoff, P., St. Petersburg, Russia 

Sage, W. H., Wellington, Ohio. 

Salmon, George, D. D., Dublin, Ireland. . 

Sanders, Rev. Thomas Cooke, Oxford, England 

Sands, W. P., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Schallopp, E., Steglitz, Germany. 

Scheele, W. F., New Orleans, La. 

Schieffelin, H. H., New York . 

Schirmer, Julius, New York. . 

Schlesinger, S. B., New York . 

Schmelling, 0., Wilkesbarre, Pa. 

Schmid, Dr. C, Blasewitz, Dresden, Germany 

Schmitt, Joseph, New York . 

Schneider, A. F., St. Louis, Mo., 

Schubert, Ck)nstantine, Brooklyn, N. Y. . 

SchuU, L., Watertown, Dakota. 

Schumann, Charles W., New York. . 

Schwartz, B., New York. 

Schweitzer, Henry, New York. 

Schweitzer, Paul, New York . 

Seymour, Robert H., Holyoke, Mass. 

Shepard, A. W., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 

Shinkman, W. A., Grand Rapids, Mich. . 

Shipley, Walter Penn, Philadelphia, Pa. . 

Sibbald, Dr. F. C, Sutton, W. Ontario. 

Simonson, Dr. G. , New York . 

Simpson, Charles E., York, England, 

Sloan, Dr. R. J., Shanghai, China . 

Smith, A., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 

Smith, W. H. H., Toledo, Ohio. 

Southworth, Dr. R. J., Washington, D. C. 

Staples, James, Bridgeport, Conn. . 

Steel, Hon. R., Calcutta, India. 

c 

1 
1 

1 

2 

10 

192 

15 

50 

11 to 15 

10 

358 

10 

402 

10 

10 

47 

10 

426 

10 

876 

10 

297 ' 

10 

218 

10 

299 

10 

184 

10 

275 

10 

211 

5 

10 

70 

10 

140 

10 

282 

10 

485 

10 

189 

10 

288 

10 

362 

5 

10 

66 

40 

10 

5 

10 

270 

10 

878 

10 

263 

10 

109 

10 

110 

10 

197 

50 

82 to 86 

10 

408 

5 

20 

75, 76 

H.50 

10 

62 

10 

478 

10 

352 

10 

300 

10 

10 

54 

10 

328 

5 

10 

67 

10 

317 

40 

10 

16 

SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 

xxxvn 

Name and Address 

Steinitz, W., Upper Montclair, N. J. 
Transferred to Steinitz, Mrs. C, Upper Montclair, N. J. 

" Hamilton, Emmet, St. Paul, Minn. 

" Martinez, D. M., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Pollock, W. H. K., Baltimore. Md. 
Williams, N. W., Upper Montclair, N. J 
Stevens, Homer B., Westfield, Mass. 
Stevens, Plowden, Jr., New York. . 
Stieglitz, Lionis, New York 

St. Lonis Chess Checker and Whist Clnb, St. Lonis, Mo. 
St. Panl Chess Checker and Whist Club, St. Paul, Minn. 
St. Petersburg Schachclub, St. Petersburg, Russia. 
Stockmann, Paul, New York .... 

Storck, F. W., New York 

Stnbbs, H. D., New York. .... 
Sudwestdeurtsche Sehach-Zeitungy Mannheim, Germany 
Tatnall, George, Wihnington, Del. . 

Teed, F. M., Brooklyn, N. Y 

Teiser, G., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 

Teiser, Wm., Brooklyn, N. Y 

Thompson, Daniel B., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Thompson, H. H., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Thornton, Geo. H., Buffalo., N. Y. . 
TOton, Theodore, Paris, France 

Tippett, J. E., Boston, Mass 

Tisdall, Fitz Gerald, New York 

Todd, J. H., New York 

Toepfer, Peter G., Milwaukee, Wis. . 

Toledo Chess Club, Toledo, O. ... 

Torsch, E. L., Baltimore, Md. 

Tschigorin, M., St, Petersburg, Russia 

Turner, J. Spencer, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Transferred to Jacobs, B. F. Chicago, 111. 

Turner. Edward H., Chicago, 111. 
*' Mercantile Library Association. 

Brooklyn, N. Y. 
The Hamilton Club, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
The Brooklyn Club. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
•• The Union League Club. New York 

Underwood, Dr. B. F., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Valieri, Georges, Marseilles, France . 
Vance, F. T. Bath, N. Y. 
Van Hoose, J. A., Birmingham, Ala. 
Van Slooten, Wm., New York . 

* Ten Copies were voted by the Committee to Mr. 
fee for Literary work. 

Donation 
Subscription 

1 

20 

115 to 126* 

Ii6 

"7 
118 

10 

119 
198 

10 

382 

It) 

449 

10 

284 

10 

287 

10 

891 

10 

278 

10 

812 

10 

887 

10 

289 

10 

269 

80 

87, 88, 89 

10 

200 

10 

201 

10 

460 

10 

889 

10 

875 

10 

219 

10 

818 

10 

869 

10 

259 

10 

405 

10 

158 

10 10 

56 

10 

434 

25 140 

2, ft 17 to 29 

24 
25 

26 

27 
28 

10 

29 

204 

10 
2 

10 

418 

478 

10 

878 

Steinitz as part of his 

xxxvm 

SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 

Name and Address 

Vazquez, A. C, Havana, Cuba 

Vianna, J. Caldas, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 

Walker, J. L., Galveston, Texas 

Walker, Wm. N., Dundee, Scotland . 

Warren, Dr. R. S., Colorado Springs, Col. 

Warren, Henry M., Pontiac, Mich. . 

Waterhouse, A. C, DecAtur, 111. 

Watts, S., London, England, 

Weber, Dr. Andrew G., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Weed, J. N., Newburgh, N. Y. . 

Wegg, Dr. J. A., Cobreville, Jamaica, West Indies 

Wehle, Fred., New York . 

Werner, E., New York 

Westerfield, E. T., New York . 

White, John G., Cleveland, O. 

White, Chas. P., West Superior, Wis. 

Whiteman, James G. , Philadelphia, Pa. 

Whitford, Daniel, New York . 

Wieman, L. H., Baltimore, Md. 

Wilde, Dr. Thomas, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Williams, R. R., New York 

Wolff, H., New York 

Woodruff, Frank C, Fort Ringgold, Texas 

Worrall, Mrs. Harriet, College Point, L. I. 

Wright, Horton D., Gloversville, N. Y. . 

Wriglit, Lieutenant M. Fisher, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Wunderlich, Dr. F. W., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Young, John Welsh, German town, Pa. 

Zenker, Chas. F., New York 

Committee of the Sixth American Chess Congreas 

1 1 

1 ^ 

Q C/3 

3 

2 

10 

350 

10 

481 

10 

453 

10 

463 

10 

173 

10 

166 

10 

177 

10 

471 

10 

477 

10 

438 

10 

864 

50 

33 to 37 

10 

228 

10 

288 

10 

179 

10 

887 

10 

190 

10 

243 

10 

355 

10 

280 

10 

445 

10 

250 

10 

423 

10 

139 

10 

472 

10 

170 

10 20 

60, 61 

10 

236 

10 

287 

489 to 500 

:\ 

SPECIAL PRIZE GAMES. 

Oame No. 1. 
Played in the first round, March 30th. 

For winning this game Mr. Gansberg was awarded the special 
prize of $50 donated by Messrs. Frank Badd and Fred. Wehle for the 
best game in the tournament. 

GIUOCO PIAXO. 

mue 

J. Ma.son. 

IP— K4 
2KKt-B3 
3B— B4 
4P-Q3 
5B— K3 
6P— B3 

7 QKt— Q2 

8 P— QR4 (h) 

9 B— QKt 5 
lOPxB 

11 B X Kt ch. 

12 P— QKt4 

13 0— O 

14 Q— K2 
loPxP 
16 P— K4 
17Kt— B4 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. 

P— K4 
QKt-B3 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
B— Kt3(a) 
Kt-B3 
Q-K2 
B— K3 
BxB 

P— QR3 (c) 
PxB 
0—0 
Kt— Kt 5 
P— KB4 
BxP 
B— Q2 
Kt— B3 

18 Kt— K3 P— Kt 3 

19 P— B4 (d) Kt— R4 
Position after Black's 39th move. 

K<^Kt6 
Black — I. Gunsberg. 

White — J. Ma.son. 

(a) We prefer here BxB, followed by Kt— 114. 

(&) This advance is prematuro and leaves a hole at QKt 8. He ought to have 
C^tled first with the option of- manoeuvring on either side. 

(c) We prefer to gain a move by O — O, as the RP is generally rather better posted 
at B3 than at B8, and White, unless he loses a move with his Bishop, is hound 
to exchange. 

(d) The hole created in the centre at Q4 involves him in great difficulties. He 
ought to have played again Kt — QB4, with the view of entering at BO and 
keeping the adverse Bishop engaged for the defence of the QBP. 

^ 

2 

SPECIAL PRIZE GAMES. 

20P— Kt3(e) 
21R— B2 

22 Q— Kt 2 

23 E— K sq. (a) 
24QBr-K2 

25 Kt— K sq. 

B— R6 
Kt— Kt2 
Kt-K3(/) 
R— B2 
QR— KB sq. 
Kt— Q5 

26R— Q2 Q— Kt4(/<) 

27Kt(K3)— Kt2 BxKt 
28KxB Q— K6 

29 K— B sq. Kt— Kt 6 (i) 

30 Resigns. (/) 

(e) Perhaps necessary though inconvenient, as the adverse Bishop obtains attadE- 

ing entrance at B6. 
Cf) Black's manoeuvring for obtaining command with his Knight of the adverse 

weak centre spot is admirable. 
(g) A great error of judgment He ought to have filled the gap at Et 3 with his 

QKt in order to be enabled to play QIl — KB sq. and keep possession of the 

KB file. 
(A) Black keeps hold of the attack with an iron grip. 
(0 Winding up with a master coup of extraordinary depth and beauty. See dia 

gram on previous page. 
(J) For wherever the QR may move, Black answers 30 . . . B x B ch. ; and after 81 

RxB,81Kt— Q7ch.;8aQxKt,8aQxQ. OrifSOBxB, 80 BxBch.; 81 11 

— ^B2, 81 Kt — Q7 ch., and wins. The whole game is a splendid specimen of 

?ir. Qunsberg'a strategical skill in open positions. 

Game Xo. 2. 

Played in the second round, May 11th. 

For winning this game Mr. Pollock was awarded the special prize 
of $50 donated by Professor Isaac L. Rice for the most bruliant game 
in the second round. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

White 
M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
5P— Q3 
6B— Kt3 
7P— B3 
8PxP 
9 Q— K2 (a) 
lOQ— K4 
llKtxP(6) 
12QxKt 

13 0—0 (d) 

14 Q— R5 (e) 

Black 
W. H. K. Pollock. 

P— K4 
QKt^B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
P— QKt4 
B— B4 
P-Q4 
KtxP 
0-0 
B— K3 
KtxKt 
Kt-QKt5 (e) 
KtxQP 
BxB 

Position after Black's 26th move 

K— Kt2. 

Black— W. H. K. Pollock. 

Whit^— M. Weiss. 

SPECIAL PBIZE GAMES. O 

15PxB R— Ksq. 22K— Kt3 R— K6 ch. 

16Kt— Q2 Q— K2 - 23K— Kt4 0') Kt— K7 

17 p_QKt 4 (0 B X P ch. (g) 24 Kt— B sq. P— Kt 3 

18 K— R sq. Q— K8 (A) 25 Q-Q5 (A) P— R4 ch. 

19 P— R3 Kt X B (t) 26 K— Kt 5 K— Kt 2 (T) 

20 RxQ Rx R ch. ' 27 Kt xR (m) P— B3 ch., and 

21 K — ^R2 B— Kt 8 ch. mates in two moyes. (n) 

(a) The opening is the same as occurred in two match ^ames between Anderssen 
and Morphy, e::cepting that Anderssen retreated his 1> — B3 on the 6th move. 
White has obtained the superior position chiefly owing to Black's 7th move, 
P— Q4, which loosens the I^P. Instead of tlie text move we would prefer, 
however, 9 O— O, threatening Kt x P, folio- ed by P— Q4, and if 9 • . . QB— 
KKt 5; 10 P— KR3, 10 B— R4 (or 10 . . . B x Kt; 11 Q x B, 11 QKt— K2; 1211— 
K sq., with a fine attack); 11 P— Kt4, 11 QB— KKtS; 12 Q— K2, winning at 
least a Pawn with a very good game. 

(b) He could have obtained much the best of the game by 11 Kt — ^Kt 5, 11 P — 
Kt8; 12KtxB, etc/ 

(c) The soundness of this sacrifice is questionable. 

(i) For after 13 PxIIt, ISBxPch.; 14 K— Q sq., UQxPch., 15 B-<J2 we 

think that t!ie attack against White's King coula\not be sustained, and Black 

had only two Pawns for the piece and, therefore, the worst as regards 

material 
(e) Not good. 14 Q— Kt 3, 14 B— Q3; 15 Q— B3 would have been superior. 
(/)He had no means of saving the Pawn, for if 17 Kt — B3, ITKtxBP, and 

White dare not take with the Rook on account of Q — ^K8 ch. and mate next 

move. 
(g) Beautiful play. It will be easily seen that White cannot capture the two 

pieces on account of the mate in two moves impending afterward by Q — K8 

ch. and Q— K8 mate. 

(h) The prelude to a most ingenious and splendidly conceived line of attack. 

(i) This sacrifice of the Queen for no more than two pieces is based on a most 
profound and brilliant idea, such as has very rarely occurred in actual play. 

if) Best If 23 Kt— B3, 23 Kt— K7 ch. ; 24 K— Kt 4, 24 R— K5 ch. ; 25 K— Kt 5, 
25 B— K6 ch. ; 26 K— B5, 26 Kt— Kt 6 mate. 

(k) Very tempting but no doubt overlooking the beautiful surprise which Black 
has in store. His best play was 25 Q— 116, with the foUowmg probable con- 
tinuation: 25. . . P— B4ch.; 26K— Kt6, best, 26Br— KBsq.; 27QxRch. 
(but if 27RxP, 27R— Kt6ch.; 28 Kt x R [or 28 K— R4, 28RxKtP, and 
wins] 28 . . . R-K6 ch. ; 29 K— R4, 29 P— Kt4 ch., and wins), 27 K x Q; 28 Kt 
X R, followed by K — ^B6, with legitimate hopes of drawing. 

(I) Truly magnificent. See diagram. 

{m) There was actually no defence. If 27 Q x R (or 27 Q— Q7, 27 R— K:4 ch. ; 23 
K— R4, 28 K— R3, and wins), 27 . • . P— B3 ch.; 28 K— R4, 28 B— B7 ch.; 29 
P — KtS, 29 R x KtP, and White has only one useless check by sacrificing the 
Queen, after which mate follows by R — Kt 5 dble. ch., or by B x Kt if Kt x R. 

(fi) Mr. Pollock's play from the 17th move renders this game one of the finest 
monuments of Chess ingenuity, and altogether it belongs to the most brilliant 
gems in the annals of practical play. The mate is effected after 28 K — ^R4 by 
28... B— B7 ch.; 29 P— KtS, 29 BxP mate. 

TSCHIGOBIN'S GAMES. 

Game No. 3. 

Played in the first round, April 6th. 

PONZIANI OPENING. 

White 

D. G. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2KK^-B3 
3 P— QB3 
4Q— QR4 

5 P— Q3 (a) 

6 P— QKt 4 
7PxP(6) 
8B— QB4 
9Q— Kt3 

10 P— 0K4 

11 Kt-^QE3 
12P— K5 
13 Kt— QB2 
14B— Q2 

15 P— KR3 (c) 

16 K1^K3 

17 0—0 
18QxB 

19 KBr-Q sq. 
20KtxQ 
21B— K3 
22Br-QE2 

Blojch 
M, Tschigorin. 

P— K4 
QK^-B3 
P-Q4 
P— KB3 
B— QB4 
PxP 
B— Q3 
Q— K2 
Q— Bsq. 
B— Q2 
KKt— K2 
P— QR3 
Kt— Q sq. 
Kt— QB sq. 
Q-K2 
B— K3 
BxB 
Q— B2 
QxQ 
K— B2 
K— K3 id) 
Kt— KB2 

23QR— Q2 

24 Kt— K sq. 

25 Kt— Q3 

26 B— B5 (/) 

27 Kt X B 

28 B— Kt6 

29 R— QB sq. 

30 P— KB3 (gr) 
31IlxKt 

32 K— B2 
33B— K3 
34 K— K2 (i) 
35PxPch. 

36 P— KKt3 0') 

37 P— KR4 {]e) 
38PxP 

39 B— Q2 (0 
40R— Q4 
41PxE 
42BxR 
43B— Q2 
44K— Q3 
45BxP 
45 Resigns. 

Kt— K2 
KEU-Q sq. (e) 
Kt— KKtB 
QRr-QB sq. 
PxKt 
R^Ksq. 
Kt-KB5 
KtxKt 
R— B5 (/<) 
KR^QB sq. 
P— KKt3 
P— B4 
PxP 
P— KR4 
P— B5 
PxP 

Kt— K4 (m) 
RxR 
RxR 
Kfr— Kt3 
K-Q4 
KtxRP 
KtxP 

(a) White blocks hia KB without need. B— QKt6, as usually played here, is 
preferable. 

(b) A little speculation at the expense of a Pawn would, we think, have beea 
justifiable here, and White might have proceeded with 7 PxB, 7 PxKt; 8 
PxP, 8Q— Q4; 9 Q— K4, 9QxBP; 10 QB— QB3, 10 Q-E4; llB^Ktsq., 
with a strong attack. 

(c) Useless as usual, and toward the end it weakens his position on this wing. 

(d) Black is making good use of his King, and his not having Castled before 
exchanging Queens is a little advantage to him. 

TBCHIGORIN 8 GAMES* O 

(e) Black has broaght his blocked-up pieces into play in an admirable manner. 

(/) White has also played excellently thus far, and the move in the text gives 
him the advantage in position. 

(^) But he does not pursue it proberly. P — QB4, which kept the adverse QP still 
more weakened, would have hardly left more prospect for Black than a draw, 
which, moreover, he could only secure by very cautious play. 

(7^) Black seizes his opportunity quickly and occupies the weak point formed by 
Whitens omission on the 80th move. 

(0 The King was more needed where he stood for the protection of the K side. 

(J) Not good, as it enables the opponent to break through in the centre with a 
troublesome attack 

(ft) Still more compromising his K side. ^ 

(Z )This injudicious retreat seals Ms fate. The proper play was 89 B — Q4, where- 
upon might have followed 89 . . . Kt— K4; 40 Br— KKt sq., 40 Kt x B; 41 K x 
Kt, and we think that, owing to the bad position of Black^s Pawns on both 
wings, White ought to secure a draw at least, and in fact he has so much the 
better chance of winning that we beUeve Black would have avoided that 
line of play. 

(w) Securing the exchange of the heavy pieces, after A>h^?h the I«rnigb.t phivs 
havoc among the scattered and w^k adverse Pawii3 on the X kidb iir.l tfte 
centra. 

Game No. 4. 

Played in the second round, May 6th. 

PONZIANI OPENING. 

White Black 6PxP QxP 

M. Tschigorin. D. G. Baird. g p" q^ P X P (a) 

1 P-K4 P-K4 9 P X P P-QI13 (ft) 

2KKt-B3 QKt-B3 lOKt— QB3 Q— Q8q.(c) 

3 p_QB3 P— Q4 11 B X Kt eh. P x B (d) 

4Q— QR4 P— KB3 12 B— KB4 K-^B2 

5B-QKt5 KKt-K2 13 KEr--K sq. (e) 13Q-Q2(/-) 

(ass... P-K5 is probably better stilL If White answer 9 KK1>-Q2, Bl^k may 
support the Pa^ by P-KB4, and White's majority of Pawns on the Q s de 
W& no harm for the ending, as in niost contmgenciesBlack m^ 
to CasUe on the Q side. If, however, 9 P-B4, » Q-KR4; 10 P-Q^, 10 Px 
Kt^l PxKt, 11 P-^Kts! and should win, for Black threatens Q— Kt5 or 
else P— QR3, foUowed by B-QB sq, v • v* 

(b) Loss of time that makes itself soon felt. 9 O-O would have been the right 
move here, followed by Q— R4 in reply to Ktr~B8. 

(e) This weak move is altogether injurious to his position, Q— KB4 would have 

been the right play, 
(d) The only move under the circumstances. If 11 . . . Kt x B; 12 P— Q5, 12 B x 

P; ISR-Qsq., 18 P— QKt4; 14 Q— KB4, 14 Kt— K3 or— Kt5; ISKtxB, 

15 K xKt;16Q— K4ch.,andwins. 

(c) White develops his attack with energy and accuracy. 

(/) Necessary in consequence of White's last move. If, for instance, 13 . . . Kt— 

/ 

6 

TSGHIGOBm 8 GAMB& 

14 Kt— K4 

15 Kt— QB5 
16B— Kt3 
17Kt-Q3(y) 
18 P— Kli3 (/) 

B-Q4(gr) 

Q— Kt5(/0 
Kt— B4 (0 
B— Q3 (A'J 
Q— Kt 3 

IQBxIi 

20 Kt— B4 

21Q— Kt3ch. 

22KtxB 

23 Kt— B4 disch. 

BxKt(w) 
Q— Kt4 
B— Q4 

PxB(7i) 
Besigns. 

Kt8 (or 18 . • . Kt— Q4, 14RxB, 14KtxB [orl4...KxR; 15QxPch., 

and wins]; 16 RxQBP, etc.); 14 KxB, 14 KxB; 15 R— K sq. ch., 15 K— Q2; 

16 P — Q5, with a winning attack. 
(cr)Forced again, for if 14 . . . Kt — Q4; 15 QKt — Kt5 ch. wins, as obyiously 

Black's Queen would be lost by Kt— K5 ch. if P x Kt. 
(h) The Queen is only out of play here. Q — ^B sq. would have been better.. 
(i) Still worse, and in fact the losing move. Kt — Kt8, in order to keep tne 

diagonal free for the Queen, was his only resource. If, howeyer, 16 . . . B x 

Kt; 17 Px B, 17 Q X P; 18 Kt— K6, with a winning game. 
(J) Threatening check with either Knight at K5. 
(Af) His game was untenable. If 17...BxKt; 18 PxB, ISQxBP (or 18... 

Q X QP; 19 Q x BP, 19 B— Q3; 20 QR— Q sq., with a fine attack); 19 Kt— B4, 

with a powerful attack. 
(T) "With his usual power Mr. Tschigorin proceeds to disorganize the adverse game. 
(m)If P X B, White replies equally with Kt — B4, followed by Kt x B and 

Q— Q7 ch. 
(ti) a blunder, but anyhow he must have come out with two Pawns behind and a 

hopeless ending after 32 . . . P x Kt, his only move; 23 Q x P ch. , 23 K— Kt 8; 24 

R-K4, 24 Kt— R8; 26 QxQ ch., 25 PxQ; 26 B x P, etc. 

Game No. 5. 

Played in the first round, April 15th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 

Black 

UP QR3(/i) 

M. Tschigorin. 

J. W. Baird. 

15E— B3 

16 QR— KB sq. 

17 Kt KB5 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2P— KB4 

B— QB4 

18 R— KR3 

3 KK<^B3 

P Q3 

19QxKt 

20KtxKtP(y) 

4 Ki^B3 (a) 

QKt B3(b) 
Kt— B3 

5 B— Kt 5 (c) 

21 P— KKt 4 

6P Q3 

O-O 

22QxRPch. 

7 BxKt 

PxB 

23 Q R4ch. 

8PxKP(d) 

PxKP 

24 Q R7ch. 

9'Q— K2 (e) 

B-K sq. if) 

25 Kt^QR4 

10B-K3 

B QKt 3 

26 P QKt 4 

110—0 

B-QR3(gr) 

27 Kt— B5 

12 K— R sq. 

Q-Q3 

28 Q R4ch. 
29KtxR 

13 Kt-KK4 

R— K3 

Q— Q2 
K— R sq. 
QR^KB sq. 
Kfr-KR4(t) 
BxB 
B— KR3 
KxKt 
B— B5(ifc) 
K— B3 
K— Kt2 
K— B3 

Q-Q3 
B— QB sq. 
K— K2 

K— K sq. 

QxKt(r) 

T8CHIG0BIN S GAMES. 7 

30 R— KKt sq. R— KKt sq. 33 Q x RP Q— KKt 3 

31 Q— KB2 R X P (m) 34 Q— KB2 R x R cL (p) 

32 R— R8 ch. (n) K— Q2 (o) 35 Q x R Q x Q ch. 

(a) By a transposition of moves a variation in the Vienna Opening is here 
arrived at 

(6) Not a good move, as it gives an opportnnity for a strong reply. KKt — ^B3 is 
preferable. 

(c) This combination of a Ruy Lopez plan with the King's Gambit was first intro- 
duced by the editor against Mr. Blackbume in 1870. 

(d) In the above-mentioned game White played here 8 Kt — R4, which is much 
stronger. In actual play occurred 8. . .B— KtS; 9 Kt x B, 9 RP x Kt; 10 P x P, 
10 P X P; 11 Kt X P, which White could do now safely, the Black KB being 
exchanged. But it will be observed that Black could not save the Pawn on 
the 8th move excepting at the expense of having an ugly trebled Pawn formed 
by the answer Kt x B. 

(c) Of course. White dare not capture the KP now, on account of the rejoincler 

(/) In the present position we would have preferred defending tlie Pawn by Q — 
K2, followed by R-QKt sq. in reply to B— K3. 

(j) This Bishop is badly placed on this diagonal 

(.'0 In order to shut out the adverse Queen from any attack on the Queen's wing. 

{I) The loose position in which this Knight is placed is disastrous to his King's 
side. Kt — ^K sq. was the proper play. 

(J) Mr. Tschigorin dashes in with his usual impetuosity, but we must, in the first 
place, express strong misgivings about the soundness of this sacrifice, excepting 
as far as securing a draw is concerned, whereas the more solid preliminary, 
20 QKt— QR4 would have won by force, e. g., 20 QKt— QR4, 20 Q— B sq. ; 21 
Kt—Bo, 21R— Kt8 (or 21. .P^— B3; 22 P— KKt 4, 23 P— Kt4; 28 R— KKt 
sq., and wins); 22 Kt — K7, winning easily. 

{k) The only move to preserve the piece. R — Kt 8 is of no use, as White would 
still answer P — ^Kt 5, and the Bishop dare not capture the Pawn on account of 
Q X P mate. 

(0 His eagerness to seize an attack on the King's side compromises his position 
on the other wing, where he had, moreover, a better chi'nce of breaking 
throujh successfully. The right move was B x Kt, and then White had to take 
care against the strong entrance of Q— Q5 by P— Q33, whereupon Black could 
weU proceed to dissolve his doubled Pawn by P— QB4, with a very good game 
and two Bishops against a Rook, for which, no doubt. White had two Pawns ; 
but as the surplus of Pawns was separated on t'.vo wings they were not much 
to be feared, and the two Bishops, with the attack in hand, had the best of the 
game. 

(m) This is ruinous. He ought to have preserved the QRP by P--QR3, in order 
not to allow the opponent a pitssed Pawn on each wing, which is all the more 
harrassing for the ending, as both are on the Rook's file, and it therefoie 
takes longer for the King to come to the succor when either advances. 

(n) finely played. He drives the King out in a manner that blocks the adverse 
Bishop. 

(o)If 82...K— K2; 83 Q— BSch., whereupon if 88...Q— Q8; 84QxQc1l wins 
either the Rook or Bishop. 

(jp) Much as the exchanges that [follow facilitate matters for the opponent, it was 
not so clear at this s»>age that JBlack had no chance for the ending with his two 
Bishops, especially as ho can apparently win some Pawns, and, moreover, 
Black has hardly any more promising resource. 

8 

TSOHIGOBIH S GAMES. 

36KxQ 

37 P— KR4 (q) 

38 P~R5 

39 P— R6 
40R— QR8 

B— B8 
B— QR3 (r) 
K— K2 
K— B3 
BxKRP 

41ExB 
42K— Kt2 
43P— B4 
MB^R8 

B— K6 cli. 
B-Kt3 
B— Q5 

B«signs. 

(q) This fine coup practically finishes the game. 

(r) 87. . .B X P would have led to an amnsing finish with 88 P— B5, 88 Bx P; 89 

P— R6, 89 B— K3; 40 P— R7, 40 B— B3; 41 K— B8, 41 K— K2, best; 43 BxB, 

and wins. 

Game No. 6. 

Played in the secoijid round, May 15th. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

White 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

M. Tschigorin 

1P-K4 

P— K4 

2 KK<^B3 

QKt— B3 

SB B4 

Kt-B3 

4 Kt-Kt 5 

P-Q4 

5PxP 

Kt^QR4 

6P Q3 

P— KR3 

7Kt— KB8 

P— K5 

8Q— K2 

KtxB 

9PxKt 

B— QB4 

10 P— KI13 

0 0 

11 Kt— R2 

P— QKt4(a) 

12 P— QKt3 (6) 

PxP 

IBPxP 

B— R3 

14 0—0 

P-QB3(c) 

15 PxP 

16 P— QB3 

17 B— K3 
18PxB(rf) 
19 Kt— Q2 
20R— B4 

21 KKt— B sq. 
22P— KKt4(<') 

23 QBr— Kt sq. 

24 KtxB 
25Q— QKt2 

Q-Q5 

Q-Q3 

BxB 

QxP 

KBr-Qsq. 

QE— Kt sq. 

E— Kt7 

Br-Q6 

RxR 
BxP 
E^Q8 

26 Kt (Ktsq.)-Q2 B— Q6 

27R^B2 

28 K— R sq. (gf) 

29 R— Kt 2 

30 R^R2 • 
31KtxR 

Q-B2(/) 
Q— Kt6(/0 
Q— RP ch. 
RxKtch. 
Q X Kt mate. 

(a) The " Modem Chess Instructor" recommends here 11 . . .P — KG; 12 B x P, 12 
BxB;18PxB, 13 Kt— K5; 14Kt— Esq., 14Q— RCch.; 15P— Kt8, 16 Q— 
B3; 16 P — B8, 16 B — B4, with the superior same, for evidently Black now 
threatens Kt — ^B4. The move in the text is old, but hardly gives any advant- 
age to Black. 

(6)Salvioli's " Teoria e Pratiea" gives the following continuation: 13 QKt— B3, 
13PxP;13QxP, 13Q— Q3; 14 O— O, 14 B— B8; 16 Kt— Kt5, 15 Q— Kt8; 1« 
P— QR4, 16KtxP; ITQxKt, 17 P— QB8; ISQxKP, ISPxKt; 19 P— R5, 
with a Pawn ahead and the superior game. The line of play here adopted is 
much inferior. 

(o) Black conducts the counter-attack quite in accordance with the ruling of the 
Qerman Handbttdi. He could have recovered the Pawn at once by 14. . .tj 
X P; 1,'} P X Q, 15 B X Q; 16 R— K sq., 16 B— B5, but at the expense of another 
Pawn the attack is now kept up with full forces. 

y 

tschigorin's games. 9 

id) Much better was keeping a hold on the adverse KP by 18 Q x B, 18 B x P; 19 

R— K sq., 19 B— Q6; 20 Kt— Q2, 20 Q x P; 21 Kt-KKt4, etc. 
(e) Weak. He ought to have relieved the QKt at once from his pinioned position 

by Q-_K sq., in order to be enabled to play Kt— Kt 3 or Q— B sq. 
(/) Still stronger wasi we believe, Q— B4, which threatened Q x KP as well as to 

break up A;\Tute's game by P~KR4. 
(g) An error. K— Kt 2 might have prolonged the game which, however, was 

lost, as Black could answer Q— K4 with the object of advancing P— KR4. 
(//) The finishing touch. White's position becomes shattered. 

Game No. 7. 
Played in the first round, April 12th. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

14 Kt— Kt sq. P— Q4 

15KPxP PxP 

16 P— QB3 B— Kt 3 

17 P— B5 B— B2 
ISBxKt QxB 
19 Kt— B3 Q— KKt 3 
20P— Kt3 B— Q2 

21 P— Kt 5 P— QR3 

22 Kt^R4 Q— B3 (c) 
23P— R4 PxP 
24 PxP B^R4 
25P— QB4(/) Q— K2 
26Kt— QB3 PxP 
27P— Kt6 B— Ktsq. 

28 Kt— K4 B— K3 

29 Q— R6 P— B3 (g) 

(a) Not as strong as the authorized move Kt — Kt 5. 

(b) B — Kt 3 is often preferred in similar positions, with the view of keeping the 
centre compact. 

(c) Of course useless and weak as generally in the opening. 

id) Seizing the attack at once by this and the next move with fine perception. 

(e) Much better was Q— K8, as the sequel shows. 

(/) An excellent move that in connection with what follows neutralizes the effect 
of Black's attack for a long time. 

(ff) Black goes astray and nearly loses the hard-earned fruit of his labors. The 
right plan was 29...P— Kt3; 30 Q— R6, 30 P— B6, breaking up all attack. 
For should White attempt any heroic measures, the game might further 
proceed: 31 P— KKt4, 31 P— B7; 32 R-Q6 (or 32 R— QB sq., 32 B— Q4, etc.), 
32 . . . Rr— R8 ch. ; 33 K— K2, 33 R x R; 34 P— Kt 5, 34 P queens; 35 Kt— B6 ch. , 
35 Q X Kt, and wins. But it should be pointed out that White had most 
probably an ingenious variation in view, in case Black played 29. . .P — KB4; 

White 

Black 

H. E. Bird. 

M. Tschigorm, 

IP— K4 

P-K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt^B3 

3B— B4 

4Q— K2{a) 

B B4 

5K1^B3 

P Q3 

6P Q3 

Ki^QM 

7P— QE3(6) 

KtxB 

8PxKt 

0-0 

9B— Kt5 

P— B3 

10 P— KR3 (c) 

Q K2 

11 R-Q sq. 

Q-K3 

12 P— QKt 4 

B— Kt3 

13 Kt— KTU 

B-Q5(rf) 

10 

T8CHIG0BIN 8 O.UIES. 

30 Kt— B5 

BxKt 

31QxB 

P— Kt3 

32 Q B3 

Q— K3 

33 0—0 

Er-Kt4 

34 Q K2 

P— R3 

35 Q B2 

P— B4 

36 Q R4(/,) 

R— Kt7 

37 Kt^B3 (0 

P— K5 

38 Kt— Q5 

P— B6 

39 Kt^B7 

BxKt 

40PxB 

R— Q7 

41RxR 

PxR 

42 Q Q4 

Q— QB3 

43 Q-Q6 
44QxQP 
45Q— QSch.C/) 
46 R— Kt sq. 
47R— Kt6 
48R— Q6 
49K— Kt2 
SOP— Kt4 
51K— Kt3(0 

52 Q— Q2 

53 Q— B4 (h) 

54 Resigns. 

K— B2 
QxP(B2) 
K— Kt2 
R— B2 (/•) 
R— K2 
K— R2 
P— R4 
R— Kt2 
Q— K2 (m) 
Q— K4 oh. 
P— R5 ch. 

■^ 

viz., 30 Kt— Kt5, 30 P— KR:3; 31 Kt— Kt6, 31 QxKt; 32 QxQ, 82 PxQ; SS 
KtxR, 88 KxKt; 34 R— QS ch., 34 K— K2; 35 RxB, 31 R-RS c!i.; Si K— 
Q3, 36 R X R; 37 R x P ch. , 37 K— KB3 or Q sq. ; 88 P— B ], 3S P— Hi ch. ; 
39 K— B2, and wins. 

{h) Mr. Bird plays all this in very fine style. 

ii) 37 Kt— QO, and if 37. . . P— B6; 38 Kt x P was good enou:?h to win. 

O') White has played the latter part of this very interesting gani3 with great 
ingenuity, and he had a won position up to this, but he impetuously lets the 
adversary slip out. 45 R — QKt sq. first was the right move, and Black could 
not escape from the effects of the threatened Q — Q-5 ch. or Q x RP. The most 
probable continuation was : 45 . . . Rr— Q sq. ; 46 Q x RP,'46 R — KKt sq. ; 47 R — 
Kt6, 47 R— Kt2; 48 P— R4, with a winning attack. 

(k) By the check on the previous move White has injudiciously made room for 
tms valid defence. 

(Z) In his usual dashing manner Mr. Bird still aims at an attack against the 
adverse King, though his forces are inferior. 

(m) An excellent move. He threatens Q — Kt 4 with destructive effect. 

{n) Of course this is an immediately fatal blunder. 53 K — Kt 2 was his only 
move, but he could not hope to hold out long after 53 . . . Q x P; 54 P x BP, 54 
Px P ch.; 55 K— R sq., 55 P— K6; 56 Px P, 56 Q— K4, threatening Q— Kt 6. 

Game No. 8. 

PONZIANI OPENING. 
Played in the second round, May 13th. 

Wliite 
M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3P— B3 
4Q— E4 

Black 
H. E. Bii-d. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P-Q4 

PxP(a) 

5KtxP 
6KtxKt(6) 
7B— B4 

8 P— Q3 (c) 

9 0—0 
lOBxQP 
11 R— Q sq. 

Q-Q4 
PxKt 
Q— Q3 
PxP 
B— K2 
B— Q2 
Kt^B3 

I 

\ 

T8CHIGORINS GAME& 

11 

12 
13 
U 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 

Kt— R3 
B— KB4 
B— KKt3 
Q— K4 ch. 
Q-B3 (/) 
P— QKt4(A) 
Kt— Kto 
KtxB(i) 
B— KB5 
BxB 
QxP 

QR— Kt sq. 
Q— Q7 ch. 
R— Kt7 
Q— B7 ch. 
QxKPch. 
B— B4ch. 
Er-Kt 3 (k) 
Br-Kt3 ch. 
BxQP 
R^QBsq. (0 

KtP-Kt5 
Q— QB4 
B— Q3 (e) 
K— B sq. 
B-K3 (5f) 
QxBP 
QxKtP 
PxKt 
l<— Kt sq. 
PxB 
K-B2(i) 
Q-QB4 
K— Kt3 
QB^KKt sq. 
K— E3 
Kt— B3 
K— Kt3 
P— KR3 
K— R2 
Q— KR4 
K— QB sq. 

33 R— Kt sq. KR— K sq. (m) 
34RxKtPch.(n)KxR 

Position after White's 34tli move. 

RxPch. 

Black— H. E. Bird. 

!#' 

m^ 

White — M. Tschigorin. 

(o) Inferior to 4 P — B8, first adopted by the Editor against the late Mr. Wisker. 
(6) This, we believe, is new and very ingenious in connection with the sequence. 

(c) White is sure to recover the Pawn here given up. 

(d) There seems to have been nothing better. It was too hazardous to try and 
maintain the Pawn by 9 B— B4, for then would follow 10 B— KB4, 10 Q— Q2 
(obviously if 10. . .Qx B; 11 Bx P ch., and wins); 11 R— K sq. ch., 11 B— K2 
(or 11. . .k— Q sq., 12 Kt— Q2, followed by Kt^B3, with an excellent attack); 
12 Q — R5, recovering the Pawn, with the superior position. 

(e) An ill-considered move which allows the advei'sary a strong attack, whereas 
P — KR4 instead would have given White no time for offensive operations. 

(/) Necessary, as Black threatened BxB. 

(^)This weak move leaves the QBP without sufficient protection, of which 
circumstance the opponent cleverly takes advantage. Kt — K4 was much 
better. 

(h) Mr. Tschigorin now assumes the attack in his usual spirited manner. 

(!) Stronger than/19 B x B ch., 19 P x B; 20 Kt— B7, 20 Kt— K4: 21 Kt x B ch., 21 
K— Ktsq., etc. 

iJ) If 22. . .R — Q sq. (obviously the Rook is lost by B x P if he move elsewhere); 
23 Rx P, ani Bla^k dare not retake on account of Q— K8 matei 

(k) Up to this White has pursued his attack with masterly skill, but here he could 
have made an end of all resistance at once by 29 R — Q3, which equally threat- 
ened R— Kt 3 ch. , followed by Q — R3 mate, with the important difference that 
Black's King could not effect his exit by 29. . .P— KR3, for after 30 R— Kt8 
ch., 30 K — R2, White simply takes off the Knight with the Queen, winning a 
piece and preparing an unavoidable mate. 

(?) Feeble, as Black's prompt reply shows. 

(m) Overlooking the opponent's profound combination. Q — Q4 instead would 
have forced the exchange of Queens, and though, of course, he would have 
remained under the disadvantfi^^e of a Pawn behind, he could still hope to 
make a fair struggle for a draw. 

(n) A magnificent sacrifice. See diagram. 

12 

TSCHIGORIN 8 GAMES. 

35 B^Kt 7 ch. 

36 Q_B7 cL. 
37Br— KtSch. 
38 P— B3 ch. 
39Q— Kt3cli. 
40Q— Kt2ch. 

K— Kt3 
K— B4 
K— K5 

K— K6 (o) 

K-K7{p) 
K-Q6((7) 

41Q— Ktsq. ch. K— K7 
42Er-Kt2ch (r)K— K6 

43 Q— K sq. ch. K— Q5 

44 Q— Q2 ch. K— B5 

45 Br-Kt 4 mate. 

(o) Of course, K — Q5 would subject him to the additional loss of the Knight 
which the opponent would capture with a check. But K — Q6 would have 
prevented his being mated. His game was, however, clearly lost even then. 

(p) If 39. . .K— Q7; 40 B— B4 ch., 40 K— K sq. (or 40. . .K— K7; 41 Q— Kt2 ch., 
followed by Q— Q2, ch. etc.); 41 Q— Kt sq. ch., 41 K— K7; 42 Q- KB sq. mate. 

(q)A curious finish might have occurred if Black had played 40.. .K — Q8; for 
after 41 Q — Kt sq. ch., the same kind of a mate could 1>b forced by White as in 
actual play in reply to 41 K— K7 or — Q7, but if 41 . . .R— B8; 42 Q— Q3 ch., 
42 K— K sq. ; 48 B— Kt 3 mate. 

(r) All this is splendid. White disdains winning the Queen, having calculated to 
a nicety that he will drive the opponent into a fine mating net. 

Game No. 9. 

Played in the first round, April 9th. 
QUEEN'S GAMBIT. 

}V}iite 

Black 

J. H. Blackbume. M. Tschigorin. 

1P-Q4 
2P— QB4 
3 KK<^B3 
4P— K3(ft) 
oBxP(c) 
6PxP 
7 0—0 
8Kt-B3 
9B— K3 

10 R— B sq. 

11 Q— K2 

12 KIU-Q sq. 

13 P— Q5 
14KtxP 
ISExKt 
16 Kt— Kt 5 
17Q— R5 
18RxB 
19B— Kt3 

20 E— Kt 3 

21 R— K sq. 

P-Q4 
PxP 

P-QB4(a) 
PxP 

P— K3 
K1^B3 
B— K2 
O-O 
Q— R4 
R— Qsq. 
B-Q2 (e) 
PxP 
KtxKt 
Q-B2 
B— K sq. 
BxKt(/) 
Q— Q3 
Q-B3 
R— Q3 
P— KKt3(<7) 

22 Q— QB5 

23 Q— R3(/i) 
24R— B3 
25 B— Kt 5 
26B— QR4 

P— KtS 
Kt— R4 
Q — Qsq. 
Q-Q2 
R^K3 (i") 

Position after Black's 26th move. 
E^K3 

Black — M. Tschigorin. 

White— J. H. Blackbnme. 

27BxR 

QxR 

28P— E4 

Ktr-B5 

29Q— Kt3 

BxB 

30QxB 

P-B4 (j) 

31 P QKt3 

K1^K4 

32E^K3 

(^Q4 

33 P— B3 

P-QR4 

34B— B6 

Kt— Q2 

35 B— Kt 2 

K— B2(jfc) 

36 Q KB4 

Br— Esq. 

37BxR 

KxB 

38 B Q4 

Q-K3 

tschigorin's games. 13 

39K— B2 K— Qsq. 

40 Q— R6 Q— Q4 

41K— K3 Q— K3ch.(Z) 

42 K— Q3 P— R5 

43Q— Kt5ch. K— Esq. 

44Q— Bsq.ch K— Kt2 

45 Q— B4 Q— Q3 

46K— B3 PxP 

47PxP Kt^K4 

48BxKt QxBch. 
Drawn. 

(a) We would not recommend this advance in this position and prefer P — K8. 

(6) White could safely play 4 P — Q5, which Pawn could be sufficiently supported. 
As Black would have to push P — K3 sooner or later, White would obtain a 
passed Pawn in the centre, which, though it might be isolated, would be very 
strong. If then 4 . . . P— QR3; 5 P— QR4, etc. 

(c) An unworthy trap for a master against another one, and, moreover, it might 
have endangered his game by proper play on the other side. 

(fl) If Black had looked out for a considerable advantage so early in the opening 
for the second player, he would have surely answered 5. . .Q— -R4 ch.; 6 B — 
Q2, best, 6 Q — Kt 3, winning a Pawn without his being subjected to much 
inconvenience in the development. Of course if 5 . . . P x P at once, White 
wins by B X P ch. 

(e) Black has adopted the lines of defence introduced by the editor against 
Zukertort, but he ought to have stopped here the advance of the adverse QP 
by 12. . .QKt — Kt5, followed soon by Kt— Q4, and we believe he had the 
advantage. If White answered 13 B— Q2, then 13. . .Q— KR4, etc. 

(/)Best. If 17...P— KR8;18RxR, 18 KtxR (or 18. . .Bx R; 19 Kt~K6, etc.); 
19KtxP, lOKtxKt, best (or 19...K— Bsq; 20KtxKt, 20BxQ; 21 Kt— 
K6ch., and wins); 20BxKtch., 20 BxB; 21QxBch., 21KxQ; 22RxQ; 
with a Pawn ahead. 

(y) Necessary; if 21. . .Kt— Qo; 22BxKt, 22RxB; 23 R— KB3, 23 Q— KKt 3; 
24QxQ, 24RPxQ; 2oRxBch., 25RxR; 26BxPch., 26 K— B sq. ; 27 B x 
R disch., and should win. Or if 21 . . .Q x KtP; 22 B— Q4, 22 Q or R or Kt x B; 
23 R X B ch., 23 R X R; 24 Q X BP ch., and wins. 

(A) We do not like this manoeuvre which posts the Queen much out of play for a 
short-lived attack. 

(0 A fine rejoinder that breaks the attack and leaves Black with an advantage in 
position. See diagram. 

U) We think that Black now lets the victory slip, for we can see no reason 
against 30. . .Kt x P. If 31 Q— Q4, 31 Kt— B5 threatening Q— K8 ch., followed 
by Q — K4 ch. and exchanging Queens, with a Pawn ahead and an excellent 
game. 

(A) An excellent move which avoids the coming danger, threatened by the adverse 
Queen entering on the K side, via KB4. 

(/) P — QRo first would have given him some prospects of more than a draw, which 
is now the legitimate resist. 

14 

TSCHIGOBIN 8 GAMES. 

Game No. 10. 

Played in the second round, May 8tL. 

FRENCH" DEFENCE. 

White 
M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2P— Q4 
3PxP 
4 KKt— B3 
5B— Q3 

6 0—0 

7 B— KKt 5 

8 QK^-Q2 

9 P— QB3 

10 Q— B2 

11 QR— K sq. 
12RxRcli. 
13QBxKKt 

14 P— KR3 

15 K— R sq. (d) 

16 R— K sq. 
17B— B6 
18 K<H-B sq. 

Blaci 
J. H. Blackbume. 

P— K3 
P— Q4 
PxP 
KKt— B3 
B— Q3 
0—0 
B— KKt5 
QKt— B3 (a) 
K<^K2(6) 
Kt-Kt3 
KR^K sq. (e) 
QxR 
PxB 
B— K3 
Q— KB sq. 
Q— R3 
R— Ksq. 
Kt^B sq. 

19 Kt— K3 

20 P— KKt 3 

21 K— Kt sq. 

22 K— B sq. (e) 

23 Kt— Kt sq. 
24B— Kt4 
25R^K2 

29 P— KB4 
27KtxP 
28PxB 
29 QxR 
30K^-K3 

31 Kt— B3 

32 P— QKt 3 

33 K— B2 
34K<r-B5 
35QxQ 
36PxKt 
37KtxR4 
38 Kt X P 

R^K2 
Kl^KtS 
Q— Kt2 
Q— R3 
K— R sq. 
Q— Bsq. 
Q— QB sq. 
B-Q2(/) 
BxB 
RxR 
K— Kt2 
KtxK2 
Q-K3 
P— QKt3 
K— B sq. 
KtxKt 
PxQ 
PxP 
K— B2 
Resigns, {g) 

(a) The sameness of development which is the usual characteristic of this form of 
opening is now relieved by a line of play that would have been more fitting for 
the first player to adopt. 

(6) In the present game the. now recognized tactics for the two sides are reversed. 
Usually White develops QKt— B3, followed by Kt— K3, while Black contents 
himself with the defensive development of QKt — Q3, followed by P — QB3. 

(c) This is already an error of judgment, for he weakens himself by this exchange 
and the opponent may now safely double Black's KBP, which he could not 
venture upon so easily if Black retained the KR, which, after remonng K — R 
sq., could be brought to bear on the open KKt file. 

(d) Superfluous in the turn which the game takes. 

(e) White's manoeuvring for the ending is excellent, and Black is evidently 
reduced to waiting moves. 

(/) A blunder which gives up the key of his po.sition in the Queen's centre. B x 
B was now the only move. 

(g) Black's game was lost. Still the resignation is chivalrous at this point, for he 
could have held out for very long. 

TSCHIGORIN 8 GAJCE8, 

15 

Game No. 11. 

Played in the first round, April 2d. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White 

Black 

C. P. Burille. M. Tschigorin. 

IP— Q4 
2P— K3 
3KKt^B3 
4B— K2 
5P— QR3(6) 
6QKt— Q2(c) 
7P— QB4 
8P— QB5 
9 P— QKt4 

lOB— Kt2 

llKtxKt 

12K^-Q2 

13QxB 

14 P— KKt 3 (g) 

15 Kt— Kt sq. 

P— Q4 
KKt^BS 
B— Kt 5 (a) 
P— K3 
QKt— Q2 
B— Q3(d) 
P--QB3(e) 
B— B2 
0—0 
KtH-K5 
PxKt 
BxB 
P— KB4 
Kt— B3(A) 
P— KR3 

16 Kt— B3 
17P— KE4 
18Q— B4 

19 P— QE4 

20 Kt^K2 

21 Kt-B4 

22 P— KE5 
23KtPxB 
24 Q— K2 
25Q— B4 
26 B— B3 
27B— (Q2 
28B— B3 
29PxPch. 
30K— K2(/fc) 
31QKr— KKtsq 

Kt— E2 (t) 
Kt— B3 
Q— K sq. 
K<^Kt5 
K— E2 
R— B3 
BxKt(./) 
E^KBsq. 
Q— Q2 
QR— Q sq. 
Q— KB2 
E— KKt sq. 
P— KKt3 
RxP 
QB^KKt sq. 

Q— Kt2 

(a) An unfavorable development for the Bishop in this opening. 

(b) Snch an early advance of the BP is useless and even disadvantageous, P — QB4 
was by far better. 

(c) We prefer the development of this Kt— QB3 after P— QB4.. 

(d) This Bishop is better posted in this opening at K2, especially for the second 
player, and in view of the advance of the adverse Pawns on the Q wing. 

(e) Allowing the opponent a strong array of Pawns on the Q wing that might 
have en£ingerea his game. P x P was, we believe, his best play. 

(/)Thi8 exchange is injudicious, as it deprives his K side of the protection of 

minor pieces. Kt — Kt3 was more congenial to the position and could have 

prepared a strong Q side attack. 
(S) The hole here made is a sore point on his K side. 14 P — B3, and if 14. . .P x 

P; 15 P X P, was his best plan,, and he had then an even game at least. 
(A) Any attempt of a centre attack by 14. . .P — K4 would have been premature on 

account of 15 Q— B4 ch., 15 K— R sq. ; 15 P— Q5, etc. 
(») With this fine move Black compels the adversary to weaken his K side still 

more, as he threatens Kt — Kt4, followed by Kt — B6, which White cannot 

afford to allow. 
(J) By the exchange of this Bishop he practically abandons the option of attempting 

to break through with his KP, which he might have reserved. The K side 

attack on the Knight file on which he relies is not of much value. 
(k) White has reserved this move with excellent judgment. As long as his KRP 

was on the board, he was bound to keep K2 square free in order to provide 

by Q — K2 against any double attack on that Pawn by the adverse Queen and 

Knight. 
(I) He ought to have kept Black busy on the other wing by P — Kt 5, followed by 

QR— Ktsq. 

16 

TSCHIGORIN S GAMES. 

32 R — Kt 2 Q — KB sq. Position after Black's 41st move. 

33 Q— Kt3 Q— K sq. P— K4 

34 Q— B4 P— QR3 Black-M. Tschigorin. 

35Q— Kt3 Kt— B3 

36E(Kt2)— R2 Kt— Q4 

37 B— Q2 B^B3 

38P— QE5(m) R— Kt5 

39Q— B2 R(B3)— Kt3 

40 Q— B sq. Q— KKt sq. 

41 Q— R3 P— K4 (n) 
42P— KB3(o) PxPch. 
43QxP K1^B3 

44 R-QB sq. K1^K5 

45 B— K sq. Q— K7 ch. 

46 Resigns. 

(m) Creating a block for himself as well as for the opponent that indicates his 
playing for no more than a draw, and perhaps this was his best plan now. 

(w) See diagram. The attack opened herewith has many chances of success, but 
we do not think that it should have altered the drawish character of the game. 

(o) A blunder. He could do no possible good by breaking up his K side too, and 
he ought to have accepted the sacrifice of the centre Pawn anyhow. After 42 
QPx P, 42 Kt— QB2; 43 Q— B3, 43 Kt— Kt4; 44 Q— B2, Black could hanlly 
effect more than a draw. 

\\Tiite— C. F. Burille. 

Game No. 12. 

Played in the second round, April 27th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 
M. Tschigorin 

• Black 
. C. F. Burille. 

12 K— K2 (d) 

13 K— Q2 
UQxP 

K<^Q5 ch. (e) 
B— K2 
Kl^B3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

15 Q Kt3 

Ki^KR4 

2P— KB4 

B— B4 

16BxB 

QxB 

3 KKt— B3 
4Kt-B3 

P— Q3 
KKfr-B3 

17Q-B2(/) 
18 Q-K3 (gr) 

Q— Kt4 ch. 
QxPch. 

5B— B4 

Kt— B3 

19 Kt-K2 

Kt— K4 

6P— Q3 
7 P— IvK3 

B— KKt5 
BxKt 

20 QR— KKt sq. 

21 Q B5 

Q— Be 

KtxBch. 

8QxB 
9Q Kt3(«) 

10 PxP 

11 B— KKt 5 

0-0 (b) 
PxP 

KtxPch. (c) 

22QxKt 

23 Kt-Q4 

24 K— B3 

25 E— K sq. 

Ki^B5 
Q— B7 ch. 
QB^Q sq. (h) 
P-QB4 {{) 

T8CHIG0RIN 8 GAMES. 

17 

26Ki^Kt3 

27QxR 

28KxKt 

29 B^-QB sq. 

30 K— K3 
31KtxP 

ExPch. 

KtxQ 

QxP 

R — Q sq. ch. 

QxP 

Q— Q7 ch. 

32 K— B3 

33 P— K5 
34Kt-K4 
35K— Kt4 
36K— R5 
37 Resigns. 

R~Q3 
R— Q5 
R^-Q6ch. 
Q— Kt7ch. 
Qr-KtSch. 

{a) This bold and ingenious line of play was first introduced by Blackbume 
against Anderssen m the Vienna Tournament of 1873. 

(6) 9. . .Kt X P ch. is quite safe and yields a material advantage, though no doubt 
it is very difficult to defend afterward. The probable continuation is as 
follows : 10 K— Q sq., 10 KtxR; 11 QxKtP, 11 K— Q2 (a move first pointed 
out by the OesterreichUche Schach^eitung); 12 Px P, 12 Px P; 13 QB— KKt5, 
13 KR— Kt sq. ; 14 Q X P ch., 14 Q— K2; 15 B— K6 ch., 15 K— B 3, and Black 
ought to come out with the superior game. 

(c) Premature and very dangerous. B — K2 was the correct play. 

(d) Giving away his advantage. He cx)uld have retained a powerful attack by 12 
K — Q sq., with the following probable continuation: 12. . .KtxR; 13 Kt— Q5, 
13 B— K2; 14 Kt X B ch., 14 Q x Kt; 15 Rr-B sq., 15 K— R sq. ; 16 Q— R4, 16 
P— Kt4; ITRxKt, 17PxB; 18 Rr-R6, 18 P— KB3; 19RxPch., 19 K— 
Kt sq. ; 20 Q— Ro, and wins. 

(e) Excellent play and much better than Kt x R. 

(/) This retreat is injudiciously chosen. Q — ^K3 was more safe. 

ig) Giving tip a Pawn for a remote prospect of an attack on the K side, which 

cannot be realized against correct play. The best plan was 18 K — B2, 18 Kt 

— Kt6; 19 KR— K sq. (not 19 P— KR4, on account of 19. . .Kt x R, and wins), 

19. . .QR— Q sq.; 20 QR— Q sq., with a defensible game. 
(h) A fine and decisive move, for he threatens R or Q x Kt, followed by Kt — K7 

ch. as well as his crushing next move, 
(t) After this White's game is hopeless, and, as will be seen, Black pursues him 

very skilfully to the end. 

Game No. 13. 

Played in the first round, March 26th. 

White 

BkKk 

A. Burn. 

M. Tschigorin. 

1 KKiH-B3 

P— KB4 

2P— Q4 

P— K3 

3P— B4 

KKt— B3 

4P— K3 

P — Q4 

5Ki^B3 

P— B3 

6B-Q3 

B— Q3 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

7 B— Q2(a) 
8Q— B2 
9 0—0 

lOKE— Qsq. 

11 B— K sq. 

12B— K2(S) 

13 QEr-B sq. 

14 Q— 114 

15 Kt— K5 

0-0 
K<^K5 
KiH-Q2 
QKt— B3 
Q— Ksq. 
B— Q2 
Er-Qsq. 
B— Kt sq. 
B— Bsq. 

(a) We wonld prefer O— O, followed by Kt— K sq. and P— KB8. 
(6) Obviously with the view of preventing the opponent from playing Q- 
whereupon Kt — K5 would follow. 

-R4, 

18 

TBCHtOOBIN S OAMEH. 

16 P— B3 

17PxKt 

18QxP 

19B— B2 

20 Q— Kt,3 

21PxB 

22B— Kt3(rf) 

23R-Q4 

24E(Bsq.)-Qsq. 

25B— K4(e) 

26 P— KB4 

27KPxE 

28Q-B2(/-) 

29 B— B2 

30Q— E4(A) 

31QxKP 

32BxKt 

33Q— R4 

34BxQ 

35 K— B sq. 

36 B— QKt 3 

37 K— K2 
38K— Q2 
39P— B4 
40P— B5 

41 K—K3(k) 
42P— Kt4 
43PxP(«) 

44 B— K sq. 

45 K— Q2 
46K— B2 
47B— B4 
48K— Kt3 
49BxB 
50BxP 
51P— QR4 
52 B— K sq. 

KtxKt 
PxP 

Kir-Qi 

Kl^Kt3 

BxKt(c) 

Q-K2 

Q-B4 

B^-Q4 

KE— Q sq. 

Br— Esq. 

KxE 

Q-Q4 

Kt-B5(sf) 

B— Q2 

Kt-Kt7 

KtxE 

Q— Kt4 

QxQ(i) 

K— B2 

E— QEsq. 

P-QKt^O) 
B— B sq. 

B— E3 

P— QKt 4 

P— Kt5 

B— B8(0 

P— Kt3(m) 

KtPxP 

E— QKt sq. 

B— Kt7 

K— K2 

K-Q2 

B-Q4 

BPxB 

K— B3 

E^KKt sq. 

B^KtS 

53 B— Kt 3 

54 K— B3 
55B— E4 
56B— Kt3 

E— KtScli. 
P— E4 
E— KK8 

K— Kt2(.,) 

Position after Black's d6tli inuvo. 

K— Kt2 

Black — M. Tschigorin. 

i^wM ml. 

imim\ 

m 

"■^(/■M 

White — A. Burn. 

57K— Q2(p) 
58B— B2 
59 K— K2 
60K— B3 

61 P— E5 

62 B— Kt 3 

63 P— B6 
64P— B7 
65 P queens 
66B— E4 

67 K— B2 

68 K— Kt sq. 

69 Eesigns. 

P— E5 
ExP 
P— E6 
E— Kt7 
E— Kt sq. 
K— E3 
KxP 
K— Kt3 
ExQ 
E— B6 ch. 
K— Kt4 
K— B5 

(c) The exchange of Bishop for Knight is only exceptionally advisable, and at this 
juncture we see no prospective advantage for Black that would place the 
position outside of the common rule. 

(d) Much better was R — (j4 at once. 

(e) B — B3, threatening P — QB4 or P — K4, would have increased the advantage of 
his position. 

(/) Owing to this weak move the attack is transferre<l to the opponent, as White's 
centre Pawns are all made useless by Black's very clever reply. The right 
play was 38 B— B3, and if 28. . .Q— Bo; 29 B— (^2, a'fter which he could again 
play B — K3, followed bv P — QB4. But it should be noticed that he could not 
now play 38 P— B4 on account of 28. . .Q— K.5; 29 Q— B3, 29 Q— B7, winning a 
Pawn. 

(g) Excellent play tliat paralyzes Wliite's centre. 

(h) An extraordinary blunder that loses the exchange. 

T8CHIG0RIN 8 GAMES. 

19 

(0 Much better was, we believe, 88. . .Q — Q6 with the probable continuation: 34 

Q— Kt3, 34Rr-Rsq. (threatening RxP, etc.); 35 B— B2, 85 Q— Q7; 36 P— 

Kt3, 36P— QKt4;37BxP, 87QxRP; 38QxQ, 38RxQ; 39 B--K4, 39 R— 

RS ch.; 40 K— Kt2, 40 R— QB8, and wins. 
(J ) An excellent move, the object of which will be soon seen. 
(A*) The Q side was his w^eak point, and, we believe, K — B2 was more correct. 
(/) For Black could have more forcibly played 41 . . . B — Kt 4, threatening B — R5, 

after which if White avoided the exchange by B — B4, Black would answer 

R— QKt sq., foUowed by P— Kt6, 
(m) Obviously if 42 . . . P x P; 43 P~B5, with a fine attack. 
(n) Injudicious. 43 P — Kt 5 was much better. As it is, White enables the opponent 

to operate alternately on two open files with his powerful Rook, which should 

have been avoided. 
(o) With this beautiful move which has been splendidly prepared by the previous 

march of the King and the manoeuvres of the Rook, Black throws the onus 

of moving on the opponent in a manner that ensures victory for the former. 

The ending is a model of fine calculation on the part of Mr. Tschigorin. 

See diagram.. 
(p) Nor could he save the game by 57 K— Kt4, 57 K— R8; 58 K— Kt 3, 58 R— Q8; 

59 B— B2, 59 R— B7; 60 B—Kt sq., 60 R— KKt 7, and wins. 

Game No. 14. 

Played in the second round, April 19th. 

KING'S GAMBIT. 

White 

Black 

M. Tschigorin. 

A. Burn. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2P— KB4 

PxP 

3KK1^B3 

P KKt 4 

4B— B4 

B—Kt 2 (a) 

5P— Q4 

P Q3 

6P— B3 

P— KE3 

7 0—0 

8Kt— R3 

9 P— QKt 4(c) 
lOP— Kt5 
11 P— K5 
12KtxP 
13BxB 

14 QKt-B4 

15 B— K3 

Q-K2(6) 
QKt— B3 

Kt— Qsq. 
PxP(e) 
B-K3 
KtxB 
Kt— Q4 
Q— B3 

(a) The Muzio and Salvio variations that arise from 4. . .P — Kt 5 give the second 
player more advantage than this old defence which leads to a cramped game 
for Black. 

(6) We mach prefer 7. . .QKt — B3, and if, as the authorities recommend, 8 Q — 
Kt 3, then 8. . .Q — Q2 (not 8. . .Q — ^K2, as given in the books ; threatening Kt — 
R4. Once White's KB can be got rid of there is little danger for Black's 
game, provided also that the King's file remain closed. 

(c) A novel and ingenious mode of attack. 

(d) This is an error of judgment of which White takes advantage with prompt 
vigor. 

«) If 11 . . . Kt— Kt 5; 12 P X P, 12 P X P; 13 Rr-K sq. , with an excellent attack. 

I 

20 

TSCHIGOBIN S GAMES. 

\ 

16 E^B sq. 
17Q— R4 
18 Q— E6 
19QBr~Ksq.(A) 
20 K<^B6 
21KtxKt 
22E^B3 

P-KR4(/) 
P— Kt3(?) 
K^-Q sq. 
Q— K3 
Kt— K6 
PxKt 
P— K7 

23 E^B2 Q— B5 

24 R (K sq.) X P ch. Kt— K3 
25Q— Kt7 P— KB4 
26RxP(t) R^Qsq. 

27 Q X BP and mates iu a few 
moves. 

(/) A feeble move which caases the loss of the game. His best defence was 16 . . 

Kt— QKt 3; and if 17 P— Q5, 17 Kt— KB sq., etc. 
(ff) This compromises his position 'beyond remedy. HLs only resourse was 17. . 

Kt^KtS; 18 KtxKt, 18 BPx Kt; 18 Q— B4, 19 Q— Q sq., etc. 
(A) After this powerful stroke Black's game becomes completely disorganized. 
(0 A merciless coup de grace, threatening Q x R ch., followed by B — B7 mate. 

Game No. 15. 

Played in the first round, March 25th. 
FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 
M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 

2P— Q4 

3 QKt— B3 

4PxP(a) 

5 Kt— B3 

6B— Q3 

7 0—0 

8QB— Kt5 

9Kt— K2 
10KlH-Kt3 
llBPxB(c) 

12 K— R sq. 

13 B— KB4 

14 Q— B sq. 

15 P— B3 

16 K«^K 5 

17 Q— B2 

18 QR— K sq. 

19 K— Kt sq. (d) 

20 B— B sq. {c) 

21 B x Kt 

22 KtxKt 

Black 
E. Delmar. 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
KKt^BS 
PxP 
B-Q3 
P— B3 
0—0 
OB— Kt 5 
QK<^-Q2(/;) 
KBxKt 
Q— Kt3 
K1^K5 
P— KB4 
QR— K sq. 
QKt— KB 3 
Q— Qsq. 
B— R4 
P— KR3 
P— KKt4 
Kt— Q2 
BPxB 
QxKt 

23 B— K 3 
24RxR ch. 
26Q— Q2 
26 P— QKt 3 
27P— KR4(/) 

28 PxP 

29 B— B4 
30P— Kt3 
31 K— R2 
32Q— K3 
33B— K5 

34 R— ]^B sq. 
35R— B2 
36B— Q6 
37B— B4 

38 R— B sq. 

39 Q— B2 (A) 
40B— K5 
41 R— K sq. 
42Q— K3 
43Q— B2 
44Q— K3 
45Q— B2 
46B-B70") 
47B— K5 

Q— Kt2 
RxR 
K— R2 
B— B2 
PxP 
B— R4 
B— B6 
Q-Kt5(y) 
Q— K3 
Q— KB3 
Q— K2 
P— Kt4 
Q— KB2 
R^KKt sq. 
Q— R4 
R— Kt5 
P— QR4 
Q— Kt3 
Q-B4 
Q— Kt3(i) 
Q— B4 
Q— Kt3 
Q-B4 
Q— QB sq. 
Q-B4 

TSCmOORIN 8 GAMES. 

21 

48P— B4 
49 B— QE sq. 
SOP— QKt4 
51ExP(0 
52BxP 
53 R— QE sq. 
54Q-QE2 
55K— E3 
56 E— KB sq. 
67 Q— KB2 

Q— Q2 
Q— QKt2 
PxEP(Jk) 
Q— Kt4 
Q— Q6 
QxQBP 
K— Kt3 
K— E4 (m) 
Q— Q6 
Br-Kt3(n) 

58K— E2 

59 E^QKt sq. 

60 K— Kt sq. 

61 B^K sq. 
62Q— QKt2 

63 Q--QB sq. 

64 Q— B4 ch. 

65 Q— B5 ch. 

66 Q-KB sq. ch. 
67KxQ 

Q— B5 

K— Kt5(o) 
Q— Q6 
B^Kt sq. 
B^QE sq. 
B^E7(jo) 
K— E6 (?) 
B— Kt5 
QxQch, 

Bn-E6 

(a) Leading to a dull continuation, which is already too well known in all its 

feasible consequences to present any new features of interest. We consider, 

moreover, that after 4 P— K5, 4 KKt— Q2; 5 P~KB4, White ought to obtain 

the better game. 
(6) In this and similar positions it is not good play to capture the Knight, for 

the adversary will obtain a veiy strong attack, after removing K — R sq., by 

R — KKt sq., and then manoeuvring his Q — ER3, via KB sq., a line of play first 

introduced by the editor against Mr. Blackbume in their first match in 1863. 
(c) The hole left at K3 causes him great trouble all through this game, and the 

open file for his Rook is worthless. On general principles it was much better 

to retake with the RP. 
id) We fail to see the object of this, and 19 Q — Kt 8 appears to us much stronger, 

for if, for instance, 19. . .Q— Kt8; 20 Q x Q, 20 Px Q; 21 B— K3, 21 Kt— Kt 5; 

22 Kt X Kt, 22 B X Kt; 23 B— KB4, and White will be able to fix his Bishop at 

K5, with a good game. 
ie) A move lost. Compare White's 23d move. 
(/) Injudicious. P — KKt 4, followed by P — KR3, would have been our choice. 

White's game was then quite safe on the K side, and he could afterward 

initiate operations on the Q wing. 
(g) Black has vigorously seized the occasion for a strong attack during the last 

three moves, and he has formed two more holes in the adverse camp that are 

of good service to him later on. 
(A) In order to obtain liberty for R — K sq., which he could not do at once on 

account of the rejoinder R x P ch., forcing mate in a few moves, 
(f) Threatening again R x P ch. 
(J) White evidently plays for more than a draw, and he must have either 

underrated his opponent or misjudged the position in now trying to win. 
(k) Black plays here with excellent judgment. If 50. . . P x KtP; 51 P— R5, 51 P 

x P; 52 P— R6, 52 Q— R2; 53 B— Q6, and Black's Pawns on the Q side cannot 

advance, while White's QRP remains strong. 
<l) The play on both sides is here very interesting, and White in turn had to 

exercise great caution and foresight. The tempting move 51 P x P, though it 

forms a passed Pawn, would have been bad on account of 51 . . .P — R6, and if 

52RxP, 52Q— Kt8; 53 Q— Kt sq., 53Q— B7ch.; 54 K— R3, 54R— Ktsq., 

with a winning attack, 
(m) Black boldlV marches on with his King, having well calculated that he cannot 

sustain any harm. 
(n) Still better was R — Kt sq. , in order to be ready for R— QR sq. , when opportune, 
(o) Another bold advance of the King that still more confines the advei^sary. 
(j>) All played in the highest style, and so far from his fearing any danger for his 

King, he foresees that the latter will only be driven into a position where he 

can be of more active service for the attack. 
iq) See diagram on next page. 

22 

TSCHIOOBIN S GAMES. 

Position after Black's 64th move 

K— R6 

Black— E. Delmar. 

White — M. Tschigorin. 

68B— B4 

69 K— B2 

70 K— Kt sq. 
71BxP 

72 K— B2 

73 K— Kt sq. 
74E^K3 

75 R-QB3 
76K— Kt2 
77B— Q2 

78 B— K sq. ch. 

79 P— Kt 5 
80PxP(0 
81K^Kt3ch. 
82B— Q2 
83R— Kt5ch. 
84K^Kt7 

85 B— Kt 5 ch. 
86B— K3 
87 K— B2 
88IU-E7ch.(») 
89 R— Kt 7 ch. 
90R— Kt5ch. 
91R— Kt6ch. 

92 R— KB6 

93 Br-R7 ch. 

R-Q6(r) 
R— B6 ch. 
R— QKt6 
RxPch. («) 
R— B6 ch. 
KxP 
R— B2 
B-Q2 
R^B3 
B— B sq. 
K— Kt4 
B— Kt2 
BxP 
K— R4(m) 
B— Kt2 
K— R5 
R— QKt3 
K— R4 
R^Kte 
K— R5 
K— Kt5 
K— B4 
K— K3 
K— Q2 
B— B3 
K— B sq. 

94 R— KKt 7 

95 R— KKt sq. 

96 R— QB sq. 
97R^B2 

98 R— B sq. 

99 R^K sq. 

100 R— Q sa. 

101 B— Q2 ch. 

102 B— B sq. ch. 
103B— K3(x) 
104 R— K sq. 
105B— B4 

106 R^K3 
107R— Kt3 
108B— K3 
109K— Kt2 

110 B— B2 

111 R-K3 
112R^Kt3 

113 K— Kt sq. 

114 Rr-QR3 

115 R^R2 ch. 
116K— Kt2 
117 K— R2 
118K— Kt2 

119 R^R sq. ch. 

120 R^R2 ch. 

121 Rr-QR sq. 

122 B— R4 

123 K— B3 
124K— B4 

125 R^R2 ch. 

126 K— K5 

127 B— Q8 

128 K— Q6 

129 K— B5 

130 Br-R3 ch. 

131 R^R7 

132 B— QR5 
133B— Q2(z) 

134 R— R3 ch. 

135 Er-rR2 

136 Resigns, {aa) 

K— Kt sq. 
K— Kt2 
B— Kt4 
B— B5 
K— Kt3 
K— Kt4 
K— Kt5 
K— R6 
K— R7 (u-) 
K— Kt7 
R— Ktsq 
R— KR sq. 
B— Q6 
K— B6 

R— KB sq ch. 
R— B4 
K— B7 
K-Q7 
R— B3 
B— K7 
B— Q6 
K— Q8 
R^Kt3ch. 
R— KB3 
R^B6 
K— Q7 
B— B7 
R-QKt6(.vI 
P— K6 
B— K5 ch. 
R— Kt8 
B— B7 
R^KR8 
R— R4ch. 
K— Q6 
P— K7 
K— K5 

Br-BS 

K— B6 
B— K5 
K— B7 

P queens 

(r) We think he ought to have preserved his RP by P— R4, which would have 
much increased his winning cnauces. 

(.») We believe that 71 . . . K x P, leaving the QKtP still en pri^, would have served 
his purpose better; for if 72 R— K3ch., 72RxR; 73BxR, 73 K— BO; 74 
B— QB sq., 74 K — K7, and he either will advance his KP soon to victory or he 
will gain the Ql*, and liis two passed centre Pawns will win. 

TSGHIGORIN S GAMES. 

23 

(i) If 80 P— Kt6, 80 P— B4; 81 P x P (or 81 R x P, 81 R x P, etc.), 81 . . .P— Q5, 

with a strong attack. 
{ft) This might have spoiled all his winning prospects. K— B4, in order to cross 

over to the Q side, was by far better. 
ic) With this injudicious check he compromises his game, for, as will be seen, 

Black obtains winning entrance on the other side with his King. He ought to 

have kept on moving the Rook on the same file, to Kt 6 and Kt 8 alternately, 
(/r) Black's play of this fin3 ending, and especially his march with the King, isa 

model of correctness and depth of calculation. 
(x) He had nothing better. If 103 R— Q2 ch., 103 K— Kt8; 104 R— Q sq., 104 

R— B6 ch.; 105 K— Kt2, 105 R— B8, and wins, 
(y) After long and very clever manoeuvring Black has secured the well-supported 

advance of the KP* without being harrassed by checks, and he must win in the 

end. 
[z) The position is very singular and instructive. If 183 KxP, 133 R — R4 ch., 

followed bv R X B, and wins ; or, if 138 R-B7 ch., 133 K--K6; 134 R— K7 ch. 

(or, 134 KxP, 134 B— Kt6 ch., and wins); 134. . .B— K5, winning easily. 
{aa) For the Rook remains defended after 138 B x Q ch., 136 K x B; 137 R— R sq. 

ch., 137K— B2. 

Game No. 16. 

Played in the second round, April 18tli. 

fVhite 

Black 

E. Delmar. 

M. Tschigorin 

IP— Q4 
2P— K3 

P-Q4 
KKt— B3 

3 B— Q3(rt) 
4P— KR3(c) 
5 KKt-B3 

P— B3 (6) 

6P— QKt3 
7PxP 

P— K4 
KtxP 

8B Kt2 
9 QKt— Q2 

B— Q3 
KtxBch. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

lOPxKt 
11 Q— K2 
12K<^-Q4 

13 0—0 

14 P— QE4 

15 P— K5 

16 KR— QB sq. 
17Kt(Q4)— B3 
18 P— Q4(d) 
19KtH-KE4(e) 
20QxKRP(/) 
21Kt— Kt6(A) 

B— KB4 
O— O— Q 
B— Kt3 
K— Kt sq. 
P— KR4 
P— R3 
Kt— Q2 
QE^K sq. 
P— KB4 
B— R2 
P-KKt4(£,) 
Kt^B3 

(a) We prefer 8 P— QB4, followed mostly by Kt— B3. 

(6) With the view of forming an attack in the K centre, as will be seen. 

(»!) Useless, and weakening the K side on which he may be bound to Castle. 

(d) Probably to prevent Kt — B4, but we believe he might have safely played 

18 Bx P, for if 18. . .KR— Kt sq.; 19 B— B3, 19 Kt— B4; 20 Kt— K sq., with a 

Pawn ahead and a good game. 
^e) The plan of attack here iastituted is radically faulty. 
(/) He must have overlooked Black's forcible answer. 
iff) Mr. Tschigorin now assumes the offensive with his accustomed vigor. 
(A) If 21 Q X P,.21 QR— Kt sq. ; 22 Q— B5, 22 B— Kt 8; 28 Q— Kt 5, 23 R— R4, and 

wins; or if 19 Kt— B3, 19 Kt— B3; 20 Q x P, 20 Q— XBi, with an irresistible 

attack. 

24 

TSCHIOOBIN S GAMES. 

22Q— E6(j) 
23 Kt— K5 
24PxB 
25QxR 
26PxKt 

27P— Kt30") 
28PxR 

KB^Kt sq. 

BxKt. 

B^KtS 

BxQ 

P— Kt5 

RxP(A:) 

Q X P ch. 

29 K— R sq. (0 

30 K— Kt sq. 

31 K— B sq. 

32 B— K5 ch. 

33 R— K sq. 

34 Resigns. 

QxPch. 
QxPcli. 
P— Kt6 
QxB 
Q-Q5 

(»•) If 22QxP, 22KR— Ktsq.; 23QxKt, 23RxKt; 2tQxP, 24RxPch.. 
and wins. 

0")Kt— B sq., followed by P— Kt3 in reply to Px P, might have at least pro- 
longed the defence. 

(k) A master coup of the highest order of ingenuity. 

(I) If 29 K— B sq., 29 P— B.5, threatening B— Q6 mate; 30 K— K2, 80 Q— Kt7 ch.: 
31 K— Q sq., 31 P X KP. and wins. 

Game No. 17. 

Played in tbe first round, April 4th. 

DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
G. H. I). Gossip. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3Kt— B3 
4B— Kt5 
5 0—0 
6P— Q3 
7BxKt(a) 
8K<^K2 
9 Ki^Kt 3 

10 P— KR3 

llPxKt 

12P— Kt4 

13 K— R sq. 

14 Q— K sq 

15 P— B3 (o 

16 E— QKt sq. 

17 B— Kt 5 (/■) 
18B— Q2 

19 P— QKt 3 

20 Kt— R2 

21 QR— Q sq. 
22P— Kt4 

Black 
M. Tschigorin. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
B— Kt5 
0-0 
P-Q3 
PxB 
B— Kt5 
Kt— E4(^) 
KtxKt 
B-Q2(r) 
B— B4 ch. 
R— Ktsq. 
K— R sq. 
P— QR4(e) 
Q-K2 
P— B3 
B— K3 
P— Q4 
Q-Q2 
P— R5 
B-Q3 

23P— R3 
24PxP 
25 R— QKt sq. 
26R— Kt2 
27 Kt— B5 
28BPxP 
29 Q— K2 (A) 
30B— B3 
31 R— KB2 
32Rr-Q2 
33BxR 
34Q— Kt5 
35QxQ 
36 B— B3 
37PxP 
38Rr-Q2 
39BxR 
40B— B3 
41B— Kt2 
42P— Kt5 
43PxP 
44 P— Kt 4 
45P— Kt5 

46 K— R2 

47 Resigns. 

PxP 
B— Kt6 
QR— Q sq. 
P-QB4 
PxP 
R^B2 
B— Bsq. 
Q— K3 
R(B2)— Q2 
RxR 
P— B4 
Q— B5(t-) 
BxQ 
PxP 
P— R6 
RxR 
P— R7 
BxP 
B-B4 

B-K3 0) 
PxP 
BxKt 
BxPch. 
B— Q5 

(.</) 

{a) As usual, such an exchange early in the opening does not turn out advantageous. 

tschigorin'b gamAb. 

25 

(6) A very good way of playing for the second party, which we believe was first 
introdu^d by Herr Winawer. 

(c) Better than B — K3 at the present juncture, though he has to play it to that 
square later on. His object is at this stage to guard all points and to provide 
in advance against any contingent adverse attack by Q— K4 after P — QB3. 

(d) P— QKt 3 was much better. 

(e) Black conducts the attack on the Q side in true modem style. Albeit his 
doubled Pawn, he has the superior game on accoimt of the strength of his two 
Bishops. 

(/) B — K3 here and on the next move, with the object of getting rid of the 

adverse two Bishops, was a more hopeful plan. 
(^) The KR would have been much better placed here on that square if only for 

the reason that it provided at once a retreat of the KB— B sq., and guarded 

that valuable Bishop against being exchanged for the adverse Knight. 
(/*) White ought not to have hesitated to exchange Knight for Bishop, in order to 

remain with Bishops of opposite colors, which gave him excellent drawing 

prospects, 
(i) This energetic move decides the battle, for after the exchange of Queens which 

is forced, as Black threatens R x B, followed by Q — B8 ch.. Black has an easy 

task, as he forms a far advanced Pawn and ultimately wins one of his 

opponent's. 
(J) Promptly forcing the entrance of his B — Q5, which wins a piece. 

Game No. 18. 

Played iu tlie second round, May 3d, 

PONZIANI OPENING. 

TF/nie Black 

M. Tschigorin. G. H. D. Gossip. 

Position after WTiite's 18th move 
Black— G. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

3P— B3 

P-Q4 

4Q-E4 

P— B3 

5B— Kt5 

KK1^K2 

6PxP 

QxP 

70 0 

B— Q2 

8P— Q4 

P— K5 

9 KKt Q2(a) 

Kt— Kt3(6) 

lOB— QB4 

Q— QR4 

IIQ— Kt3 

P— B4 

t 

m 

|§ 

IS 

White — M. Tschigorin. 

{a) A new move, we believe, and one that deserves great attention. 
(b) Inauspicious. P — KB4 was clearly better. 

26 

TSCHIGOBIN 8 QAXEH. 

12B— B7ch. K— K2(c) 14B— Kt5ch. KxB 

13 Kt— B4 (rf) Q— K3 (e) 15 Kt— Q6 double cli. mate. 

(c) Quite a comical blunder tliat leads to an early and drastic end. 

(rf) Either a piece is won or mate in two follows, as actually occurred. See 

diagram. 
(«) (living up a piece by B — K3 was the only move to save the mate or loss of a 

Queen, but, of course, the game was gone. 

Game No. 10. 

Played in the first round, April lOlb. 

SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

White 

M- Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3P-Q4 
4KtxP 
5B— K3 

6 P— QB3 

7 Kt— B2 
8QKt— R3 
9KtxB 

10 B— K2 (6) 

11 P— B3 
l2PxP 
iSKtxKt 
14 0—0 
15B— Q3 

16 Br— K sq. (e) 
17B— K4(/) 
18P— QB4(A) 
19BxPch. 
20Q— Kt3ch. 
21KtxKt 
22Q— K3 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
PxP 
B— B4 
Q— B3 
KK<r-K2 
P— Q3 (a) 
BxB 
P— QE3 
Q— Kt3 
P— B4 (c) 
KtxP 
BxKt 
B— K3 i^d) 
Q— B3 
Kt— K4 
0-0-0 (y) 
KtxQBP 
KxB 
K— B sq. 
Q — Q5 ch. 
QxKt 

23QxBch. 

24RxQ 

25 QBr— K sq. (/) 

^6 KxB 

27 R— K4 

28 P— QKt 3 

29 K— B2 
30K— Ksq. (/) 
31Br-K2 

32 P— KB3 

33 K— Q sq. 

34 P— QR4 

35 R— K4 

36 K— B2 
37P— QKt4(A) 
38RxP 

39 K— Q3 
40K— K3 

41 Rr-Kt2 

42 K— Q2 
43K— B3 

44 K— B4 (m) 
45R— Q2 

46 P— R5 

47 Resigns, (p) 

QxQ 

KR— K sq. 
RxR 
K-Q2 
R— Kt sq. 
R— Kt4 
R— QB4 
R— QR4 
R— KR4 
R-— QR4 
P— Kt4 
P— R4 
Rr-Q4 ch. 
P— QR4 
PxP 
R^KB4 
P— R5 (0 
P— B4 
R— K4 ch. 
R— K sq. 
R^K6 ch. 
K— B3 (n) 
R— R6 (o) 
P— Q4 ch. 

(a) 7... BxB; 8 KtxB, 8 Q — K4; as recommended in the "Modem Chess 
Instructor," is stronger. Wliite has nothing better than 9 Q— B.H (for if 9 B — 
Q3, or Kt — Q3, Black will answer P — Q4, with the effect of isolating the 
KP), and then Black proceeds with 9. . .0 — 6, followed soon by P — KB4, with 
the superior game. 

(6) We prefer QKt — B2, so as to be prepared to enter with that Knight at Q4 at 
the earliest opportunity. 

TSCmGOBIN S GAMES. 

27 

(c) Well played, as it forces for Black the majority of Pawns on the Q side and 
an open K file. 

(d) Guarding against the reply Q — Kt 8 ch. after O — O. But O — O — O was 
better, as he is driven to that later on in a more unfavorable position. 

(e) Threatening R x B, followed by B-7B4 in case Black Castles K side. 
(/) An excellent move, which at least causes Black great inconvenience. 

(ff) R — QKt sq. was, we believe, his best feply. The move in the text subjects 

him to a powerful attack. 
(/<) WTiit^ enters on an artificial plan of attack and does not perceive the plain 

truth of the position. 18 Q — ^Q4 would have won a Pawn at least, with the 

superior game ; for if 18. . .P— QB4 (br 18! . .P— Q4; 19 Bx RP, or if 18. . . 

K— Ktsq.; 19BxKtP, 19 Kx B; 20 P— KB4, etc.); 19BxPch., 19KxB; 

20 Q— K4 ch., 20 K— Kt sq. ; 21 P— KB4, 21 B— B4; 22 Px Kt, and should win. 
(i) Instead of this, which allows Black's King to come out and facilitates the 

attack of the adverse Rook on the open QKt file, we would have preferred 

R X R, followed by K— B2. 
U) Altogether an ill-judged manoeuvre of the King, which stood much stronger 

where he was, being nearer the adverse passed QP. He was also better placed 

at B2 for the purpose of assisting the advance of his Pawns on the K side, 

especially the BP, which would have become harrassing to the opponent, since 

Black's King was cut off from the centre. R — K2 was the right move. 
(k) As usual, the party that tries to force a drawn game loses. It is difficult to see 

how White could have been persuaded to such an attempt of matohing an 

isolated RP against two combined passed centre Pawns. 
(l) A very fine move which settles White's Pawns on the K side and neutralizes 

with two Pawns the opponent's three, 
(ta) A gross error that loses speedily. But even after 44 K — Q2, 44 R — R6, Black 

was bound to win. 
(») The natural reply that wins. 

(o) Splendid play, which forces the game in the simplest and quickest manner. 
(p) For after 47 R x P, 47 R— R5 ch. ; 48 K— Kt 3, 48 R— Kt 5 ch., Black obviously 

wins a clear Rook. 

Game No. 20. 

Played in the second round, May lOth. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

WTiite 

I. Gunsberg. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3B— B4 

Black 

M. Tschigorin. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 

4 P— Q3 
5Kt— B3 
6B^KKt6(a) 
7Kt-Q5 
8B— Kt3 
9KPxKt 

Kt— B3 
P— Q3 

B— K3 (b) 
QKt— E4 
KtxB 

BxKt(c) 

(a) We do not approve of this pinning. 

(6) By P — KR3 Black could either drive back the Bishop or effect an exchange 
favorable to his position. 

(c) Inferior to 9. . .P— B3, for if 10 BxKt, 10 PxB; 11 Kt— K8, 11 P— Q4, and 
we prefer Black. 

28 

TSCHIGOBIN 8 GAMES. 

lOPxB 

P— KR3 

llBxKt 

QxB 

12 0—0 

0-0 

13 Kt^Q2 

14 K— R sq. 
15P— QKt4 
16Kt— B4 

Q— Kt3 
QR— K sq. 
B— Kt3 

P— K5(d) 

17B^R3(e) 
18PxP 

Q B4 
QxP 

19 R— QB3 

20 Kt— Q2 

21 R— KB3 

B-Q5 
Q— K2 
Q-K7 

22 P— B3 
23P— QKt3 
24P— KtSC/") 
25K— Kt2 
26QxQ 
27Kt— B4 
28KtxB 

29 P— B4 

30 R— QB sq. 
31P— Kt5 
32 R— K sq. 

Given up 

B— Kt3 
R— K2 
KR^K sq. 
R-K6 
RxQ 
R— R7 
RPxKt 
R (K sq.)— K7 
R (K7)— Q7 
K— B sq. 
R— K7 
as drawn, (gr) 

(d) Of questionable value, for it relieves White of one of his doubled Pawns. 

(e) This fine move brings the Rook into communication with the centre and the 
K wing. 

(/) White cautiously makes provision to bring the King to the succor for the 

ending. 
(g) There is no weak point on either side and no chance of breaking through for 

either party. 

Oame No. 21. 

Played in the second ronnd, May 18tli. 
FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 
M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2 P— Q4 . 
3PxP(a) 
4KKt— B3 
5B— Q3 
6Kt— K6 
7KtxKt(c) 
8 0—0 
9Kt— B3 

10 P— B3 

11 B— KB4 (e) 
12B— K5 
13BxP 

Black 
I. Gunsberg. 

P— K3 

P-Q4 

PxP 

KK<r-B3 

B— K2 (b) 

K^-B3 

PxKt 

0—0 

B— KKt5(d) 

B— R4 

P— B4 

PxP 

P— B4 

14 B— K5 
15BxB 

16 K— R sq. 

17 P— QKt 3 
18BxB 

19 R-K sq. (/) 
20QxR 

21 Q— Q2 

22 Kt— R4 

23 R— K sq. (g) 
24QxR ^ 
26Q— K2 
26Q— B4 

27 P— R3 (h) 
28K— R2 
29 Resigns. 

B— Q3 

QxB 

B— Kt3 

KR— Ksq, 

RPxB 

RxRch. 

R— Ksq. 

P-Q5 

Kfr-Q4 

RxRch. 

Kt-Kt5 

KtxRP 

Q-K4 

Q— K8 ch. 

Kt— B8 (t) 

(a) We notice in all the games of this opening in which Mr. Tschigorin is the first 
player that the Russian master prefers the old line of continuation for White. 

(b) New, but hardly as good as the commonly played 5. . .B — Q3. 

TSCHIGOBIN 8 GAMES. 

29 

(c) This allows Black to form a good centre later on. After 7 KB— QKtS, 7 B— 
Q2; 8 KtxB, 8 QxKt; 9 0—0, we slightly prefer White, on account of the 
two Bishops. 

id) We do not see any use in this, and would have much preferred to dissolve the 
doubled Pawn by P— QB4. 

(e) Our suggestion is probably not congenial to Mr. Tschigorin's style, but we have 
no doubt, according to our principles, that Kt — QR4, followed by B— K8, was 
his correct play ; and if he only stopped the advance of the adverse QBP, he 
was bound to obtain the superiority in the end, on account of the opponent's 
doubled QBP and isolated QRP. 

(/) The game resolves itself into a position which by rights ought to lead to a 
draw. 

(g) Much better was 23 P— QB8, 23 Kt— K6; 24 Rr^K sq., followed by P x P. 

(A) The natural and usual move in similar positions, but a blunder in this 

exceptional and curious instance. P — KKt 3 was the only move to save the 

game, and though Black would keep a Pawn ahead even in that case, the 

game would most likely have ended in a draw. 
( I) Black shrewdly grasps his advantage. He now wins the game by force, as he 

threatens Kt — K7, to which his opponent has no defence. 

Game No. 22. 

Played in the first round, March 27th. 
EVANS GAMBIT. 

8B— K3(c) 
9 QKtr-Q2 
lOQ— B2 

11 K— E sq. 

12 QR— K sq. 
13B— Q5 
UKtxP 
15KBxQKt 

16 Kt— B5 

17 p_B3 (e) 

KKi-K2 
0—0 
Ki— Kt3 
P— Kt3 
B— Kt2 
PxP 
Kt— B5 
PxB(ci) 
P— B4 
QR— K sq. (/) 

White Black 

M. Tschigorin. J. M. Hanham. 

1 P— K4 P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 QKt— B3 
3B— B4 B— B4 
4 P— QKt 4 BxP 
5P_B3 B— Q3(a) 

6 O— O Q— B3 (6) 

7 P— Q4 P— KE3 

(a) This favorite defence of the late Hungarian master, Herr Szen, was latterly 
revived by some of the strongest players in Boston. 

(6) The Bostonians generally adopt here P— KR3, followed by KKt— B8. 

(c) Much strongtsr is here QKt — R3, which Black cannot well exchange without 
subjecting himself to a strong attack, while otherwise White also obtains a 
very good game by manoeuvring that Knight via QB2 — K3. 

(rf) 15.. .BxKt was the straight-forward and better course. If White then 
exchanged that Bishop, no harm was done to Black's position, and the latter's 
four Pawns against two on the Q side became, if anything, stronger. But it 
would anyhow prevent White's answer 16 Kt — Bo, which gave that Knight a 
strong position, for in that case Black would answer 16. . . Kt x P, and if then 
17 K X Kt (or 17 Kt X B, 17 Kt X B, with two Pawns ahead), 17 . . . Q x Kt, etc. 

(e) To prevent Ktx P, followed by Q x Kt. 

(/) Black blocks his pieces too much by this. The KR was of no use at KB sq. 

30 

TSCmOOBIN's OAKES. 

18 K<^QB4 

19 R— Q sq. 
20QKtxB 
21 P— QB4 
22Q— R4 
23Q— Q7 
24Q— R4 
25Q— Q7 
26Q— B6 
27Q— R4 
28E^B2 
29KE^Q2 
30 Q— Kt 3 
31B— B2 
32 Q— B3 (7i) 
33ExP(i) 
34RxR 

Kt— Kt3 
B^K3 
PxKt 

KR— K sq. (g) 
B^Rsq. 
B— R3 
B— Kt2 
B— R3 
Q— Qsq. 
B— Kt2 
Q— B2 
B— B3 
B^-Qsq. 
Q-Q2 
P— B3 
RxR 
Q— QB2 

35 B— Kt 3 
36KtxR 
37P— KR3(/) 

38 K— Kt sq. 

39 K— B2 
40B— B4 

41 Kt— B5 

42 Kt-K3 
43Kt— Q5 
44P— K5 
45PxP 
46K— Kt3 
47Q— K5 
48Q— Q6 

49 Q— B7 ch. 

50 B— Q6 ch. 

and might have been employed for the same purpose, 
we believe, KR — Q sq. 

RxR 
Q— Q2 
Q— K3 
Kt-K2 
B— Q2 
K1^B3 

Klr-R4 

Q— B3 
K— B2 

Q— R5(A-) 
QxRPch. 
QxBP 
Kt— B3 
B— K3 (l) 
K— B sq. 
Resigns, (m) 

But better still was, 

(g) B — B8, in order to attempt a diversion on the Q side by P— QR8 and P — 
QKt 4, or else Kt — K2 with the object of exchanging the troublesome adverse 
Knight, were by far better. 

(h) Cleverly compelling Black first to weaken his Pawns on the K side before 
proceeding to recover the Pawn. 

({) We would have preferred 83 KtxP, 88 Q— B2; 84 B— Kt8 (it is noteworthy 
that the more tempting 84 Kt — Kt 5 is not satisf actorv on account of 34 ... R x 
R; 86KtxQ, 3.5 RxR ch.; 36B— Ktsq., 36 Kt— B5 | threatening R x B ch. . 
followed by Kt— K7 ch.]; 87 Q— B2, 87 R— Q3; 88 Kt— Q5, 38 Kt— K3, and as 
the most important avenues to Black's game are closed to White's Queen, the 
two Rooks can make a very good fight for a draw at least), 34. . .Kt — K4; 3.5 
BxKt, 3.5 RxB; 86 Kt — B5, with the superior game. It was anvhow not 
very good to exchange Black's Rook at K3 which was not well placed. 

(J) Of no use. His King could start at once toward the centre. 

(k) Black had played the greater ^rt of this game remarkably well, and, we 
believe, he had a won game ^t tms point but for the grave error which he now 
commits. 44 . . . P — B4 was good enough, provided that if White answered 4.'5 P 
— K6 ch. , the only correct reply was 45 . . . Q x P (for if 45 . . . B x P; 46 B x RP, 
etc.). Of course White would have then continued the attack with 46 B — K5, 
but then 46...P— KKt4; 47B— Kt8, 47 Q— Kt 3, etc., would make Black's 

r to tell ii 

game safe, and the Pawn ahead ought i 

in the end. 

(/) If 48. . .B— K sq. ; 49 Q— B7 ch., 49 K— K8 (or 49. . .K— Kt 8; 60 Q x P ch., 50 
K— B4; 51 Q— Kt4 mate); 50 Px P, and wins. 

(ot) After 50. . .K — K sq., his only move. White forces a neat mate by 51 P — B7 
ch., 51 B X P; 52 Q— B8 ch., 52 Kt— Q sq. ; 53 Kt— B7 mate. 

tschigorin's games. 

31 

Game No. 23. 

Played in the second round, April 20tli. 
TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

White 

Black 

15 K<H-B4 

BxKt 

J. M. Hauham. 

M. Tschigorin. 

16QxB 
17PxB 

BxB 
Q— Kt3 

IP— K4 
2 KKI^BS 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 

18 Q— B sq. 
19KtxKP 

QR— Qsq. 

3B— B4 

KKt— B3 

20 P— Q4 

4 P— Q3 (a) 

B— B4 

210 0 

iT^t 

5P— QB3 

P— Q3 

22B^B4 

6B— K3 

B-Kt3 

23 .Q— Ksq. 

PxP(e) 

7QKt-Q2 

0—0 

24PxP 

Kt— R4 

8Q K2 

P-Q4 

25R-B4 

Kt— B3 

9B— Kt3 

P— KR3(6) 

26Kt— B4 

Q— Kt4 
KBr— K sq. 

lOP— KTl3(c) 

B K3 

27 Kt— K3 

IIB— B2 

P — Q5 

28 Q B2 

12PxP 

KtxP 

29Kt^B5 

R-Q4 

(/)RxKt 

13 Q— Q sq. 

• KtxBcli. 

30 R— KB sq. 

14QxKt 

Q-Q3 

31 Besigns. 

(a) White turns the opening into a Giuoco Pianissimo. 

(6) There is here some reason for this usually weak move, as Black intends to 
inconvenience the adverse QB, and has no attack to fear on the K side. 

(c) But on White's part the precaution is useless. 

id) A fine attacking move that ought to have yielded more by force than it did. 

(e) By this exchange Black loses part of his advantage. He ought to have 
retreated Kt — R4 at once, and then proceeded as in actual play. The differ- 
ence being that White could not afterward gain time (compare White's 27th 
move) again by Kt — K3, this square being blocked by his own Pawn, a weak 
one as it stood, of which, however, he is now relieved. 

(/) White has played very ably to get out of all positive disadvantage, and 
but for this great blunder the game was even. The right move was, of 
course, 30 R— B4, whereupon if 30. . .Kt— K5; 31 Q— B sq., 31 Kt— Q7; 32 Q— 
B2, and no more than a draw ought to be the legitimate result. 

Wliite 
M. Judd. 
IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 

Game No. 24. 
Played in the first round, March 30th. 
RUY LOPEZ. 
Blcuck 

M. Tschigorin. 3 B — Kt 5 P — QE3 

P_K4 4 B— E4 Ki^B3 

QKt-B3 5 P— Q4 (a) P x P 

(a) We prefer in this position the development by P — Q3 and P — QB3. 

32 

TSCHIOOHm S GAMES. 

6 0—0 

7P— K5 

8KtxP 

9K1H-B5 
10 P X P en pass. 
llPxB(6) 
12 B— KB4 (c) 
13B— QKt3 
14BPxKt(d) 
15Q— B3 
16QRxB 
17B— Q2 
18B— B3 

19 KR— K sq. 

20 QBr— Q sq. 

21 P— KR3 

22 K— R2 
23P— QKt4 
24 P— QR3 
25RxR 

26 Q— Kt 3 

27 R^K sq. 
28B— Q4 
29 0— Kt 4 
30K— Kt3(/) 
31Q— R4 

32 K— R2 
33Q— Kt3 
34P— KR4(a) 
35QxQ 

36 K— Kt sq. (h) 

37 B— K3 ch. 
38B— B5 

39 P— B3 ch. 
40PxPch.(t) 

41 R^B sq. ch. 

42 B— Q6 
43BxKt 
44RxRch. 

45 K— R2 

46 P— R4 (k) 
47P— QKt3 
48PxP 
49P— Kt4(m) 
50P— R5 

51 P— R6 

52 P— R7 

B— K2 

Kt— K5 

0—0 

P-Q4 

BxKt 

KtxP 

Kt^-^B4 

KtxB 

K<H-Q4 

BxKt 

P--QB3 

R— Ksq. 

Q— Kt4 

Q— Kt3 

P— B3(e) 

P— KR3 

K-^R2 

P— KB4 

R— K5 

PxR 

R^Ksq. 

Rr-K2 

Q— B4 

P— KKt3 

P— KR4 

K— R3 

P— KKt4 

Q— B5 

QxPch. 

PxQ 

K— Kt4 

K— Kt5 

R^K3 

K— B4 

RxP 

Kt-B5 0-) 

K— Kt5 

RxB 

KxR 

K— Kt5 

P— Kt3 

P— R4(0 

PxP 

PxP 

P— Kt6 

P— Kt7 

P — ^Kt8 queens 

53 P— R8 queens Q— QKt4 (n) 
54Q— KKt8ch. K— B5 
55Q— Q8 K--Kt5 

56Q— Q7ch. K— Kt4 
57Q— Kt7ch.(o) K— B4 

58 Q— B7 ch. K— K5 

59 Q— B3 ch. K— Q5 

60 Q— B2 ch. K— B6 

61 Q— K sq. ch. {p) 

62 Q— Q2 ch. 

63 Q— K3 ch. (q) 

64 Q— Q4 ch. 

65 Q— R7 ch. 

66 Q— K3 ch. 
67Q— QKt6ch. 

68 Q— B2 ch. 

69 Q— B3 ch. 

70 Q— B4 ch. 

71 Q— B sq. ch. 

72 Q— B4 ch. 

73 Q— K4 ch. 

74 Q— B3 ch. 

75 Q— B2 ch. 

76 Q— B sq. ch, 

77 Q— B2 ch. 

78 Q— Kt 6 ch. 

79 Q— R5 ch. 

80 Q— B5 ch. 

81 Q— K3 ch. 

82 Q— Q2 ch. 
83Q— Kt2ch. 

84 Q— K2 ch. 

85 Q— K3 ch. 

86 Q— K6 ch. 

87 Q— R2 ch. 
88Q— Q5 

89 K— R sq. 

90 Q— Kt 7 ch. 

91 Q— KKl 7 ch. 

92 Q— K7 

93 Q— R3 ch. 
94Q— Kt4ch. 
95Q— Kt5 
96Q— Kt4ch. 

K— Kt7 
K— R6 
K— R4 
Q— Kt5 
K— Kt6 
Q— B6 
K— B7 
K-Q6 
K-Q7 
K— Q8 
K— Q7 
K— K7 
K— Q8 
K— B7(r) 
K— B8 
K— Kt7 
Q— B7 
K— R6 
Q-R4 
K— Kt6 
K— Kt5 
K— Kt4 
Q— Kt5 
K— Kt3 
P— B4 
K— R4 
K— Kt4 
Q— Bo ch. 
K— Kt5 
K— B6 
Q-Q5 
P— B5 
K— Q7 
K— K7 
K-Q7 
Q— B6 (.») 

Forfeited by time limit. 

(6) This move gives WTiite the superior development, whereas 11 B x Kt, 11 Kt x P 

leaves the game even. 
(c) P— QB3 was preferable. 

tsohigobin's games. 33 

(d) White gives the opponent command with his Knight in the centre, but ob- 
viously ne had nothing better, for if RPx Kt, Black would win a Pawn after 
the exchange of Queens. 

(e) P — KB4 at once would have gained time. 

(f^) An adventurous movement of WTiite's King that only causes him loss of time. 

(^r) An excellent resource for drawing purposes if he had only played properly 
afterward. 

(/i) 26 B — K3 ch. was the right move that equalized the game without much 
trouble, for if Black moved the King, then the White King could safely enter 
at R3, and if 36...KtxB; 37RxKt, 37K— Kt4; 38 P— B3, 88 K— B5; 89 
R X P ch., and draws. 

(i) The exchange of Pawns was injudicious. K — B2, followed by the exchange 
of Rooks and afterward K x P, in case Black exchanged Pawns, made a draw 
more probable, and WTiite could expect no more. 

(j ).Excellent play. Black does not allow the opponent to take possession of the 
upper row with his Rook. 

(k) At this point Mr. Judd claimed a fifty moves count. 

(t) Black impetuously throws away a sure win in a short number of moves. He 
could easUy gain the opposition and throw the onus of moving on the opponent 
by 47. . -K— B5; 48 K— R3, 48 K— Kt4; 49 K— R2, 49 K— Kt5. White's Pawn 
moves on the other wing could then be easily exhausted, and Black's King 
would gain entrance at Kt 6, followed by P — KRO, winning easily. 

(m) Black had evidently overlooked this fine answer. 

(n) Q — KKt 3 was, we believe, better adapted to keep everything safe and to lead 
the King over to the Q side without his being subjected to many checking 
troubles. 

(o) Again Q — Q8 ch. was better. 

(p) Simply capturing the RP that hampered the advance of his King gave him 
much better prospects of drawing, as Black's QBP could not advance far 
without giving White again many checking opportunities that would have 
impeded its progress. 

(q) As a rule in such positions, the closer to the adverse King the checks are given 
the more effective they are. Q — B3 ch. was the right play, and whatever 
Black might do either the checks would continue or the adverse Queen could 
only interpose in a manner that left his QBP unprotected, which gave 
additional chances of a draw for White. 

(r) If Black exchange Queens, he can only effect a draw. 

(«) Mr. Judd stated afterward that he played the greater part of this ending in 
reliance on his having the legal right of claiming a draw if he could pnly 
extend the game to fifty moves after he had claimed the count without being 
mated. Having accomplished his object he refused to go on with the game, 
which he might have done under protest without -damaging his rights. But 
his interpretiation of the rule was not sustained on appeal, and Mr. Judd was 
also adjudged to have forfeited the game on the ground that he did not abide 
by the decision of the umpire to proceed with the same. 

34 

T8CHIG0BIN 8 QAHES. 

Game No. 3o. 

Played in the second round, April 24tli. 
KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

mate 

M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 

2 P— KB4 

H KK^-B3 

4Kt— B3 

5B— B4 

6P— Q3 

7P— B5 

8B— Kt3(6) 

9EPxKt 
10 Q— K2 
IIB— Kt5 

12 0—0 

13 K— R sq. 
14P— QKt4(c) 
15 Q— B2 
16QBr— Ksq. 

17 P— Kt4 

18 Er— KKt sq. 

19 Q— 114 
20R— Kt3 
21B^E3 
22BxP 
23P— B6(/) 
24B— Kt5 
25QxQ 
26BxP 
27BxR 

28 E^Kt3 

Bkick 
M. Judd. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
KKt— B3 
K^-B3 
P— QR3 (fl) 
Kt— QR4 
KtxB 
P— B3 
B— Kt3 
B— B2 
Q— K2 
B— Q2 
R— Q sq. {d) 
B— Bsq. 
0-0 
QR— K sq. 
K— R sq. {e) 
B— Qsq. 
P— R3 
K— Kt sq. 
Kt— Q2 
QxP 

PxQ 
B— B3 
KtxB 
Kt— Kt3 

Position after Black's 24tli move. 

Q-R3 

Black — M. Tschigorin. 

White— M. Judd. 

29 Kt— Q sq. 

30 Kt— K3 

31 K<^B5 

32 P— KKt 5 
33Kt(B3)— R4 
34P— Kt6 

35 P— Kt 7 ch. 

36 KtxB 

37 QR^KKt sq. 
38RxKt(/0 
39RxP 
40Rr-Kt4 
41RxBch. 

K— B sq. 
Kt^B5 
R^Qsq. 
B— K2 
B— K3 
QBxKt 
K— Kt sq. 
Kt— Kt3 
B— B3 
PxR 
K— B2 
BxP(i) 
Resigns. 

(a) Black clearly cannot afford this loss of time, which enables the adversary to 
block the QB. O— O is here the propr move. If White then play P— Bo, 
Black may answer QKt— R4, followed by P— QB8 and P— Q4. 

(h) P— QR8, which Anderssen used to play in similar positions, is, we believe, 
stronger, as Black has nothing better than to exchange the Bishop, and the 
open Q file will add to White's advantage. 

(c) Preparing an attack in case Black should play O— O — O. 

(d) We think that Black would have been safer, nevertheless, with his King by 
O— O— O than on the other wing, where he is driven to take shelter .subse- 
quently. His Rook is also an obstruction now for his QB, which subsequently 
has to be posted at Q sq. 

(«) B — Q sq. at once, in order to release his Queen, was by far better. 

T8CHIGORIN S GAMES. 

35 

(/) Though this wins the exchange, 33B— Kto, 28 P— B3; 24 B— Q2, followed 
by R — KKt sq. and P — Kt 5, was much more forcible. 

iff) This ingenious move, whereby Black escapes at the expense of the exchange 
from the pressure of an appai-ently irresistible attack against the King, wa 
probably overlooked by White in his forecalculation on the 23d move. 

ifi) Winding up with irresistible power. 

(n There was no remedy, as Kt— R6 ch. was threatened. 

Game No. 26. 

Played in the first round, April 8tli. 

HUNGARIAN DEFENCE. 

White 

M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q4 
5Kt— B3(6) 

Black 

S. Lipschtitz. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— K2 (a) 
P— Q3 
Kt— B3 

6P— KK3(c) 
7 0—0 
8B— K3 
9Q— K2 

10 QR— Q sq. 

11 P— R3 

12 KBr— K sq. 
13Ki— Kt5(<7) 

P_QR3(d) 
O— O 

Q— K sq. (e) 
B— Q sq. 
Kt— Q2 
K— R sq. 

Kt— K2(/) 
Kt— KKt 3 (70 

(a) This opening received the name of the Hungarian Defence after having been 
adopted by the Chess Club of Pesth in the correspondence match against 
Paris, over thirty years ago. 

(6) The Giuoco Piano system, commencing with P — QB8 at this puncture is, we 
believe, more efficient for the purpose of retaining pressure agamst the adverse 
confined position. 

{n) The present precaution, which we are opposed to on general principles, was 
hardly as necessary at this juncture as the retreat of B — QKt 3 or O — O. 

{d) For instead of this unmeaning move Black could at least equalize the game by 
6...KKtxP; 7KtxKt (if TBxPch., 7KxB; SKtxKt, 8PxP; 9KtxP 
[or 9 KKt— Kt5 ch., 9 K— Kt sq.; 10 Q— B3, 10 B— B3; 11 Q— Kt3 ch., 11 P 
— Q4, and Black ought to keep his Pawn ahead], 9...KtxKt; lOQxKt, 10 
P— Q4, and we prefer Black's position), 7 . . . P— Q4; 8BxP, 8QxB;9 Kt— B3, 
9 KB— QKt 5; and if lOPxP, 10 QxQch.; 11 KxQ, 11 QB^KKt 5 will 
soon recover the Pawn, with the better game. 

ie) Since White has O — O, Black was deprived of the resource of Kt x KP, for 
White would capture the Knight, followed, in reply to P — Q4, by B x P, Kt — 
QB3, and then accordingly P— Q5 or P x P. 

(/) Much as Black^s pieces seem to be cramped up, he had still a well defensible 
game, with good prospects of opening a counter-attack if he had only played 
P— KB4 at once. 

ig) We believe that White was more sure of obtaining the advantage bv 13 P x P, 
13PxP (or 13...KtxP; 14 KtxKt, 14PxKt; 15 R— Q2, with the view of 
entering Kt — Q5 as soon as Black withdraws his Knight from K2); 14 R — Q2, 
etc. 

(A) Black's patience has broken down with this injurious move. 13... P — KRf> 
was still good enough for defensive objects; for if 14 Q — R5, 14 K — Kt sq. ; 

36 

TSCHIOORIN S GAMES. 

14KtxBP(0 
15 Q— R5 ch. 
16QxKt 
17QXQP 
18PxP 
19B— B5 
20B— Kt3 
21P— KB4(Jfc) 

22 P— B5 

23 Q— Q2 
24Q— Kt5 
25 Q— E5 (l) 
26PxP 
27QxBch. 

KxKt 
K— Kt sq. 
P-QB30) 
K— E sq. 
KtxP 
Br— KKt sq. 
B— B3 
Kt-KtS 
B— K4 
Kt— B sq. 
Kt— R2 
P— KKt3 
PxP 
QxQ 

28B— Q4 

QxBch.(w 

29RxQ 

R— Bsq. 

30 R— KB sq. 

K— Kt2 

31RxE 

KtxR 

32R— Q8 

P QKt4 

33B^K8 

Kt Q2 

34 P— K5 

Kt— Kt3 

35B^Kt8ch. 

K— R3 

36 P— K6 

R^R2 

37 R— K8 

K— R2 

38 P— K7 

B— Q2 

39B^-QKt8 

K1H-B5 

40BxKt 

PxB 

41B-XJ8 

Resigns, (n) 

lo Kt>-B3, 15 Kt— KB3; 16 Q— R4, 16 Kt~>Kt8; 17 Q— Kt8, 17 Kt— R4, with 

the superior g^me. 
(i) Fine play. 
(J) A desperate effort to avoid the entrance of the hostile Knight at the expense 

of another Pawn. But we believe that 16. . .B— B3; 17 Kl^Q5, 17 Q— Q sq.; 

18 KtxB ch., 18 QxKt gave more hope of fighting for a draw, though, no 

doubt, by best play White was bound to win. 
(A) Much stronger was 21 B— Q4,^'hereupon. if 21 . . .Kt— Q2; 22 Q— KB4, followed 

by P— K5, would also win the KBP, at least. 
(?) 25' Q — R4 would liave kept up the attack in a manner that was likely to lead to 

a more interesting finish, for Black could not attempt to release his KR by 

25. . .P— KKt3 on account of 26 PxP, when, if 26. . .PxP, the Rook could 

be captured by the Bishop, whilst 26 . . . R x P would be obviously disastrous, 

owing to the reply R — Q8 ch. 
{m) Simple and good enough, especially as there was little prospect of keeping up 

the attack othei*wise. 
(n) Black has struggled bravely, but he has to succumb at last to superior force, 

backed up as it is by accurate and energetic play. Even after 41 . . . B — K sq. ; 

42 R X B, he would have to give up the Rook for the Pawn immediately, in 

order to stop its queening, for if 42. . .K — Kt2; 43 R— Kt 8 ch., and wins. 

Game No. 27. 

Played in the second round. May 7th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

fVhite 

S. Lipschtitz. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q3 

Bktck 

M. Tschigorin. 

P— K4 
QKiH-B3 
Kt— B3 
B— B4 

5P— QE3fa) 
6Kt— B4 

7 KtxB 

8 P— QB3 
9P— KB4(c) 

lOQBxP 
11 PxP 

P— Q3 

B— Kt3 

EPxKt(6) 

Kt-K2 

PxP 

P— Q4 

QKtxP 

TSCmOOItlN 8 OAHES. 

37 

12 K1^K2 

13 0— O 
14Q— Q2 
15QB— Kt5 

17 QB^K sq. 
18B— B4 
19QB— Kt3(rf) 
20P— QKt4 

0—0 
Q-K2 
B— K3 
Q— B4ch. 
Kt— KKt5 
P— KR3 
QR—K sq, 
KKt— K6(p) 
KtxB 

21Q-B8q.(/) 

22PxKt 

23 Kt^B 5 

24KtxKtP(/0 

25 B— K5 

26BxKt 

27QxRP 

28 Q— B8 mate. 

Q— K2 
Kt-B3 
Q-Q sq. (sr) 
&, X £^t 
K— Ktsq. 
Q-Q6 
Q— Kt3(t) 

fa) With the view of preserving the KB against an exchange by QKt — Q4, but we 

do not think this is worth the time lost. 
(&) His open QR file and the prospect of an attack on the Q centre neutralize the 

adverse two Bishops. 
(r) We prefer Kt — K2, followed by O — O, in order to reserve the option of 

advancing P — Q4 or P — KB4, according to circumstances. He creates thus 

early a hole at K8 that afterward causes him trouble. 
{(l) His best plan was now to retreat B — KB2,* which would have equalized the 

game. 
(e) An error of which the opponent very cleverly takes advantage. By playing 

the other Knight to the same square he could have at least won a Pawn, with 

an excellent position. 

(/) This fine manceuvre secures fully the material temporarily given up, with an 
irresistible attack. 

ig) All this is forced, and he cannot avoid the disaster which his opponent pre- 
pares on the next move. 

(h) This powerful stroke disorganizes the adverse position. 

(I) Probably under pressure of the time limit, and having a hopeless game, Black 
hastily left himself open to mate at once ; but there was nothing to be done. 
After 27. . .Q— R2 (the only move); 28 Q— Kt5 ch., 28 Q— Kt 8; 29 Q— R4, 29 
Q— R2; 30 R^B4, 30 B— Q2; 81 Q— Kt8 ch., 81 (^Kt8; 82 RxR, 82 RxR; 
83 R^R4, 38 Rr-K8 ch. ; 84 K— B2 forces mate in a few more moves. 

Game No. 28. 

Played in the first round, April ISth. 

QUEEN'S FIANCHETTO. 

WJiite 

M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2P^Q4 
3B— Q3 

Black 

N. MacLeod. 

P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
Kt— KB3 

4 P— KB3 (a) 
5KKt— R3 
6 0—0 
7P— B3 
8B— K3 
9 QKt— Q2 

P— Q3 
P— K3 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 
P— KK3(6) 
Ki^E2 

(a) Like in all close games, it is impossible to get up an early attack in this open- 
ing, and the plan instituted here of fortifying the centre Pawns by the advance 
one step of the BP on each side is now recognized as the best. It was first 
introduced in a game between the editor and Mr. Mongredien. 

(6) As usual, this weakens the K side. 

38 

TSCmoOBIN S OAMEB. 

10 P— KB4 

11 P— K5 (c) 
12Q— R5 

13 P— B5 (d) 

14 Kt-B4 
15PxP 
16BxKt 
17Q— Kt6 
ISKtxKP 

19 Kt— B4 

20 R— B3 

21 QB^KB sq. 
22PxP 

23 Br-QB sq. 
24KtxKt 
25 Q— B7 

P-Q4 
Q— Q2 
B— KBsq. 
0—0 
K— Kt sq. 
PxP 
RxB 
E— Rsq. 
B^Ksq. 
Kt— Q sq. 
P-QB4 
PxP 
B— R3 
K^-K3 
RxKt 
R— K2 

26Q— B4 
27 P— QR3 
28Q— B7 
29 R^B6 (e) 
30RxBcb. 
31QxR 
32QxB 
33 P— R3 
34PxP 
35Q— Q6 
36Q— K7 
37Q— B7 
38QxPch. 

39 P— K6 

40 Kt^B sq. 

41 B— B4 ch. 

R— K3 
P— KKt4 
B— K2 
B— QBsq. 
QxR 
BxR 
K— R sq. 
I'-Kt5 
R^Bsq. 
R— Qsq. 
R— KKt sq. 
QxP 
K— Kt sq. 
Q— Kt6 
Q— Kt3 
Resigus. 

(e) Now that Black's TJishop is blocked by his own Pawn and no pieces can ent«T 

at White's K4, tne advance of this Pawn becomes advantageous. 
(d)The attack here commenced soon yields the material advantage of a Pawn 

and practically decides the issue at once, considering the disparity of play 

between the two opponents. 
(e) This and White's next move form points of some interest in a struggle tliat 

has been a foregone conclusion for some time. 

Game No. 29. 

Played in tlie second round, May 14th. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

' N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 

2 P— QB3 (a) 

3 P— Q4 (c) 

4 P— KB4{e) 
5K<^B3 
6QxP 
7B-B4(/) 
8 B— Q3 . 
9Q— K3 

10 Q— K2 
llBxKt(7) 

Black 
M. Tschigorin. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 (b) 
P— Q4(rf) 
KtxP 
PxQP 
P— QR3 
B— K3 
Kt— QB3 
B— QB4 
0-0 
PxB 

12Kl^Kt5(/.) 

13 P— KKt 4(1) 

14 P— Kt4 
15KtxKP(/) 
16 K— Q2 
17Q— Kt2 

18 K— B2 

19 K<^Q2 
20KtxR 
21K— Kt2 

22 Q— K2 

23 R— K sq. 

24 Resigns. 

B— B4 
B— B sq. 
B— Kt3 
Q — ^Ro cli. 
BxP 
B— KB4 
KR— K sq. 
RxKt(A-) 
R— Ksq. 
BxKt 
KtxP(/) 
QxR 

(rt) This old o|)ening is very rarely adopted in modem play. Tlie preliminary of 

3 KKt— B8. 2 QKt— B8 makes the advance of the QBP more feasible. 
(I>) We agree with the (German " Handbuch" in giving 2. . .P — Q4 the preference. 

TSCHIGOMN 8 GAMES. 39 

(r) The Gennan ** Handbucir' gives here the following contiauatiou : 3 P— KB4, 

3 P X P; 4 P— Q3, 4 P— Q4; 5 P— K5, 5 Q— K2; 6 Q-.K2, 6 Kt^Kt 5; 7 Kir- 

B3, 7 QKt— B3; 8 B x P, with the better game, 
u/) A new line of play which seems to lead to an early equalization. 
it) Simply throwing away a valuable Pawn. 4PxQP, 4QxP;5 PxP would have 

made an even game of it. 
(/) Losing valuable time. Obviously B — Q8 at once was better. 
ig) With so few pieces in play this exchange iforebodes early disaster, especially 

as he cannot recover the Pawn by it. 
{ft) If 12 Q X P, 12 K^-K sq. wins speedily. 

(i> Still more weakening his K side, which is already in bad condition. 
ij) Disastrous. 1.5 QKt--<;i2, and if 15. . .P— KR3; 16 P— KR4, might have given 

him a chance of holding out. 
(k) Decisive, and making the rest easy. 
(/) Black's superiority of force and play asserts itself irresistibly. 

Game No. 30. 

Played in the first round, March 29th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 

Black 

8Q— B3 
9Kt— B2 
lOP— Q3(c) 

Kt-KB3 

M. Tschigorin. 

D. M. Martinez. 

Kt— B3 

Kl^-QKt5(d) 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

QxEtch. 

2 P— KB4 

B— B4 

12QxQ 

BxQch. 

3 KKt^B3 

P— Q3 

13KxB 

KtxQBP 
Kt— KKt5 ch. 

4KI^B3 

P— QR3(a) 

14 R— QKt sq. 

5PxP 

PxP 

15K— Kt3 

P— KB4 

6KtxP 

Q-Q5 

16Kt— Q5(c) 

K-Q sq. (/) 

7K1^-Q3(6) 

B— Kt3 

{a) QKt — B3 was now the only correct play. 

(6) Introduced by the editor in- a game against SeHor Golmayo, in a similar 

position. The difference that Black has previously lost a move by advancing 

P — QR8 is strongly in White's favor. 

(c) An error that at least compromises his advantage. This kind of game requires 
great patience, and he should have postponed developing his Q side. 10 B — 
K2, with the view of eventually retreating B— Q sq. in reply to the attack by 
QKt— Kt5, was the right play. 

(d) This excellent answer recovers the Pawn, with rather the better position. 

ie) A grave error that, we believe, ought to have cost him the game. P — KR3 
was his right defence, and then the answer, P — R5 ch., could not harm him, as 
Black had no time for making preparations, and was bound to save hi)4 
Knight. 

(/) A piece of good luck for White. In his better days Mr. Martinez would, no 
doubt, have seen that he could here win the game, as pointed out by Mr. 
Delmar, viz., by 16, . .P— B5 ch.; 17 K— B4, 17 P— KBB (threatening P- Kt4 

40 

TSCHIOOBIN 8 OA3CEa 

17P— KR4(o) 
18 Ki^B3 
19B— B4 
20P— Kt3 
21Kt-R4 
22 Kt— Kt 6 
23B— Q2 
24PxP 
25B— B3 
26B— Kt4ch. 
27PxP 
28K— B4 
29B— B5 
30 Kl^B4(?n) 
31P— R4 
32B— B2(«) 
33 E— B sq. 
34K— K3 
35 R— R sq. 
36K— Q2 
37K:tPxB 

B— K3 

Kt— Q5(/0 
P— QB3(t) 
K-Q2 
K— K2 
QR— KKt sq. 
P-Kt40') 
P— B3 
Kt— Kt4 
K— K sq. {k) 

Kir-q5 (l) 

K— B2 
Kt— Kt4 
KtxP 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— B6 
R— Kt 5 ch. 
Kt— R7 
Kt— Kt5 
BxKt 
P— R4 

38 K— B3 
39P— Kt3(p) 
40B— K2 
41B— K3(g) 
42B— B4 
43BxR 
44B— B7 
45BxP 
46R— R4 

47 BxKt 

48 K— Q2 
49K— K2(«) 
50RxR 

51 Br— QKt sq. 
52RxP 
53R-P 
54 K— B sq. 
55P— R5 
56 P— R6 
57R^KB7 

P— B4(o) 
Kt— K4 
R— Kt4 
RxP(r) 
RxPch. 
Kt(K4)xB 
K— K3 
Kt-KB7 
R— KBsq. 
R— B6 cb. 
PxB 
R-R6 
KtxR 
K— K4 
KxP 
Kt— B5 ch. 
K-Q5 
K— B4 
K— B3 
Resigns. 

ch., followed by Kt— Q5 mate); 18 B— K.S (or 18 P— K5, 18 P— Kt4 ch.; 19 K 

— K4, 19 P— B4 ch.; 20 K moves, 20 Kt— Q5 mate), 18. . .Kt— K4, and wins. 
(g) He does not overlook it twice. 

(h) Useless. K — Q2, followed by QR — KKt sq., was by far stronger. 
(i) Also weak. The hole on the Q side is soon utilized by the opponent. K — Q2 

was again the right move. 
0') The sacrifice of a Pawn, though it embarrasses the opponent for some time, is 

hardly justifiable in this position. He could have prepared the same sort of 

attack by P— KB8. 
(ft) Loss of time, as soon shown. K — B3 was superior. 
{I) Again time lost, for he has to beat a retreat almost immediately, 
(m) His Knight was well enough placed, and P — R4 at once was preferable. 
(n) Much stronger was, we believe, 83 Px Kt, whereupon, after 82. . .Ktx B; 83 

PxBP, 83 PxP; 84 Kt— K5 ch., 34 K moves; White's attack by 85 P— Q4 

would soon become irresistible, 
(o) If 88. . .P— RS, then still 89 P— Kt8. 
(p) With this excellent move White releases at last his long blocked-up pieces on 

the K side. 
(q) A fine move that forces, at least, the gain of the adverse KKP, which is the 

key to Black's position. 
(7-) Desperate. He now must lose the exchange, but there was nothing good. 
(«) Winning plainly and surely. The exchange of Black's Rook is now obviously 

forced. 

TSCHIOOBIN 8 GAMES. 

41 

Gsme No. 81. 

Played in the second round, April 23d. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

miite 
D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 
2KK^-B3 

3 B— Kt 5 

4 0— O 
5P— Q4 
6BxKt 
7KtxP 
SB^Ksq. 
9B— Kt5 

lOBxB 

11 P— QB4(ft) 

12KtH-QB3(c) 

13 P— Q5 

UKtxP 

15P— QKt3(d) 

16 K<H-Kt 6 ch. 

17 P— B5 

18 Q— B sq. 
19BxKt 
20BxQ 

Black 
M. Tschigorin. 

P— K4 
QKlh-B3 
Kt^B3 
KtxP 
P— QE3 
QPxB 
B— K2 
Kt^Q3 
B— K3(a) 
QxB 
0—0—0 
KB— Ksq. 
PxP 
Q— KB sq. 
P— QB3 
K— B2 
Kt— K5 
QxP 
QxQch. 
KxKt 

21 QB— K sq. 

22 K«^KB3 

23 K— B sq. 

24 P— KE3 • 

25 Kt^K5 
26E(K4)— K2 
27 Kt— KB3 
28BxE 

29 Ki^Q2 
30P.XP 
31 K— K sq. 
32Br-K4 
33 K— K2 
34Br— K3 
35KxE 
36K— Q3 
37 K— B2 
38P— Kt3 
39P— R4 
40K— Kt2 
41 K— B2 
42K— Kt2 
43K— B2 

K— B2(e) 
E— Q4 
KB— Qsq. 
P— B3 
B^Q7 
P-QE4(/) 
BxB 
P— B5 
PxP 
E— Q6 
K-Q3(gr) 
P— QKt4 
B^-QB6 
ExBch. 
K— B4 
K— Kt6 
B— Q4 
B— K3(/i) 
P^B4 
P— Kt3 
P— R4(t) 
B-Q4 
P— B4 

(«) Of course if B x B, White wins the Queen by Kt x QBP diach. 

(6) The attack thus far conducted leads to an even game, but no more, and we 
disapprove of this advance which weakens the Pawns on the Q side without 
any corresponding advantage in position. 

(c) White would only compromise himself further by P — Q5, as Black might 
reply Kt — B4 either before or after PxP, and White's QP would soon be lost. 

((f) Necessary, as Black threatens Kt x P, etc. 

(«) Black has played very ably, and he has come out with a Pawn ahead, and 
otherwise an equal position, at least. His last retreat threatens R — Q7, which 
he cannot do now, as he would be subjected to the loss of the exchange by the 
reply Kt— B4 ch. 

(/) Instead of this he ought to have played his King forward via Kt 3 and Kt 4 
and he would have won witholit much difficulty, as the entrance of his King 
at QU6 and the consequent gain of all the Pawns on the Q side, could not be 
prevented. 

(i?) Again K— Kt8, followed by K— Kt4, was mnch better. 

(h) The manoeuvres of the Bishop are very fine, if done with the object of weak- 
ening the adverse Pawns, and gaining ultimately access for his King on that 
wing. But Black fails to take advantage of that in the end. 

(»') Those precautions are unnecessary and not much to the point He could aa 
well proceed with the advance of the BP at once. 

42 

TSGHIQOBIN S OAHES. 

44K— Kt2 
45PxP 

46 K^-Kt sq. 

47 Kt— B3 

48 Ktr-m ch. 

49 K— B3 

P-QB5(./) 
PxP 
B— K5 
B— B6 
K— B4 

B— k:7(*) 

50Kl^Kt4 B— B8 

51 Ki^B2 B— Q6 

52 Kt— K3 B— K7 
53Kt— Kt2 

Giveu up as drawn. {I) 

U) Premature. B — K5 first would have won without any difficulty. 

(A)49. . .B— B3; 50 Kt— Kt4, 50 B— Kt4; 51 Kt moves, 51 K— (^4, with the view 
of abandoning the QBP and entering with hi.s King on the K side, would have 
won with ease. 

(l) A very lucky escape for White, for Black has still a won game. All he hatl to 
do was to manoeuvre his B— QKt 4 in right time, when the opponent had to 
move his Knight away from the command of Black's Q4 (and be could easily 
gain a move for that purpose), whereupon Black's King would enter on tlie fe 
side via Q4, as indicated in our last note, or else via <j5, in case White niove<I 
his King. 

Game No. 82. 
Played in the second round. May 2d. 
KING'S GAMBIT DECUNED. 

White 

M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2P— KB4 
3KKf^B3 
4Kt— B3 
5B— B4 
6P— Q3 
7P— KE3 
8QxB 

Bladi 

D. M. Martinez. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
P-QE3,(a) 
Kt-jQB3 
B— KKt5 
BxKt 
Kl^-Q5 

9Q— Kt3(i) 

10 K— Q sq. 

11 PxP 
12B^Bsq.(c) 
13QxKtP 
14RxKt 
15RxP 
16B— KKt5(d!) 
17 Kt— Q5 
18RxP ch. and 

moves. 

KtxPch. 
KtxR 
PxP 
Kt— B3 
K— Q2 
K— B sq. 
B— Q3 
Q-K sq. (e) 
R— KKtsq. (/) 
mates in two 

(a) This loss of time contributes greatly to his early disaster. 

(6) In consequence of Black's dilatory 4th move this venture is now, we believe, 
sound. He sacrifices no more than the exchange virtually, as the adverse 
Knight that gains the Rook will remain imprisons and ultimately be lo.st. 

(c) An excellent move that much increases the difficulties of the defence. 

((f) Prompt and energetic. 

(e) If 16. . .Q— Kt sq.; 17 RxP ch., and wins. 

(/) K — Kt sq. might have given him time for some further re.sistance, but his 
game was past recovery. 

tschigorin'b oakes. 

43 

Game No. 88. 

Played in the first round, April 1st. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 

M. Tschigorin. 

IP— KB4 
2P— K3 

3 KK1H-B3 

4 P— QKtS 

5 B— Kt2 
6B— Q3(6) 
7 0— O 
8Ki^B3 

9 P— QR3 
10 Q— Ksq. 
UQ— Kt3 
12B— K2 
13PxP 

14 K<H-Q sq. 

15 Kt— K5 
16Q— K3 

Black 
J. Mason. 

P-Q4 
P— K3 
KKt^B3 
P— B4 
B— K2 
Kt-B3 
0—0 
B— Q2 
P— QB3 
P— QKt4 
P— B5 
Kt— K sq. 
KtPxP 
P— B4(c) 
B— B3 
Q— B2 

ITKtxB 
18P— K:t4 
19KtxB 
20PxP 
21B— B3 

22 K— R sq. 

23 Q— R6 
24Kt^B4 

25 R— KKt sq. 
26Ki^B6(e) 
27P— Q4 
28PxP 
29P— 04 
30Q-R4m 
31RxRch.(()r) 
32 Q— Ksq. 
33PxKt 

xKt 

xB 
P— Kt.3(rf) 
KtPxP 
K— R sq. 
Rr-KKt sq. 
R— QKtsq. 
Q— K2 
K<^B3 
P— R4 

PxP en pass. 
Kt— Qsq. 
Kt— B2 
Kt— K5 
RxR 
KtxKt 
QxP 

White forfeited by time, (h) 

(a) As explained in the "Modem Chess Instructor" we, as a rale, do not approve 
on principle of the early advance of any but the two centre Pawns. 

(6) The Bishop is not well placed here, being subject to the attacks of the ad- 
vancing hostile Pawns on the Q side, as will be seen. 

(e) Unnecessarily furnishing the opponent with a mark for his attack with the 
KKtP, and also forming a hole in the centre. Moreover, B — QKt sq. was 
obviously a stronger move. 

(d) A^n B— QKt sq. was manifestly better, for if iO Et— R4, 20 Kt— Q6 (threat- 
ening Kt X B ch.); 31 Px Et, 21 Q x Et, with the superior game. 

(e) Obvi ously this cannot be taken. 

(/) Allowing a cleverly concealed mine to be sprung upon him and losing a 

valuable Pawn in consequence. 
(g) Of course if Q x Q, he is mated by Et — B7 ch. 

(A) Black bad evidently the best, of the game anyhow, with a Pawn ahead and 
having repelled the adverse attack. 

44 

TSCHIGORIN S GAMES. 

Game No. 84. 

Played in the second round, April 26tli. 
QUEEN^S PAWN OPENING. 

White 

Black 

J. Mason. 

, M. Tschigorin 

IP Q4 
2B— B4 

3BxKt(6) 

4PxP 

5Kt^B3 

P Q4 
P— QB4(a) 
ExB 
Q E4cli. 
P— K3 

6P— K4 

7PxP(c) 

8B— Kt5ch. 

9 Kt— B3 
lOQ— Q2 
11 Q— Kt5ch. 
12QxBcli. 
13 B— K8 ch. 

BxP 
Kt-B3 
K— K2 

KtxP(r/) 
KtxKt(f) 

K-B2(£/) 
Resigns. 

{a) First played by the editor against Mr. Mason in the London Tournament of 

1883. 

(6) The above- nameil game proceeded 3 PxP, 3 QKt^B3; 4 KKt— B3, 4 P- B3. 

with an excellent game. 
(c^ In our notes in the Book of the London International Tournament of 1883, 

where this variation is pointed out, we give the continuation : 7 B — Kt 5 ch. , 

7 K— B sq, ; 8 P x P, 8 Q— Kt 8, with a good game. 
{(l) Overlooking that White's ingenious answer subjects him to a strong attack ; 

and, moreover, that in reply to 9 . . . B — Kt 5, WTiite had no better answer than 

10 P — Q6 ch., whereupon Black would obtain an excellent game by 10...B x P. 
{e) An extraordinary blunder. He could still obtain a fair game by 10. . .B — Kt5; 

11 KtxKt ch. (or 11 Q— Kto ch., 11 K— B sq., etc.), 11. . .PxKt; 12 P— B3. 

12 QxB; 13 PxB, 13 R— K sq., etc. 

(/) Losing the Queen in two more moves, but it was all over anyhow. If 11 ... K 
— Q8; 12 Q— K5 ch., followed by Q x B, wins equally, or if 11 . . .K— B sq.; 12 
Q X B ch., 12 K— Kt sq. ; 13 Q x Kt, 13 Q x B; 14 Q— B7, and wins. 

(r/) If K — Q sq. , he is mated in two moves, commencing with Q — Q6 ch. 

Game No. 35. 

Played in the first ronnd, March 28th. 

FOUR KNIGHTS GAME. 

White 
W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 
2QKt-B3 
3Kt— B3 
4P-Q4 
5KtxP 

Black 
M. Tschigorin. 

P— K4 
KKtr~B3 
K1^B3 
PxP 
B— Kt5 

6 KtxKt 

7 B— Q3 (a) 

8 P— K5 (6) 
90—0 

10 P— KK3 (c) 
llBxPch. 
12 Q— E5 ch. 
13QxKt 

KtPxKt 
P-Q4 

Ktr~Kt5 

0—0 
KtxKP 
KxB 
K— Kt sq. 
Er-Ksq. 

TSCHIGORIN 8 GAMES. 

45 

Po^)ition after Black's 21st move 

QKxB 

Black — M. Tschigorin. 

14Q— Kt3 

loB— Kt5 

16 QBr— B sq. 

17Q— B4 

18PxB 

19(^-QB4 

20 B— K3 (e) 

21PxB 

22 QBr— K sq. (g) 

23RxR 

24 Br-Kt sq. 

25 Besigns. 

B— KB4 
Q— Q2 
B^K3 
B X Kt (d) 
R— K7 
QB— K sq. 
BxRP 
QRxB(/) 
QxRP 
RxR 

Br-KS 

^\^lite— W. H. K. PoUock. 

(a)7 Q--Q4, 7 Q— K2; 8 P— B3, 8 P— Q4; 9 B— KKtS brings about a Dosition 
of the Scotch Gambit which is demonstrated in the ^^Intemationad Chess 
Instructor," in favor of White. 

(b) Wrong on principle, as it allows Black a strong majority of Pawns on the Q 
side. 8 Px P, 8 Px P; 9 B— QKt5 ch., as played by Seilor Golmayo against 
Captain Mackenzie, is the right play. 

(c) The attack against the adverse King which he aims at by giving up the EP in 
exchange for Black's KKP is worthless and only damages additionally his 
position, on account of the counter-attack which the opponent obtains on the 
open K file with his Rooks. Black also gains the combination of two Bishops 
against Bishop and Knight, the latter being besides badly posted for any 
purpose. Much better was 10. . .QB— KB4; 11 R— K sq., 11 R— K sq., and if 
10. . .KB— QB4; 11 R— K2, or if 10. . .P— Q5; 11 P— QR3, 11 B— R4; 12 P— 
QKt4, etc. 

(d) Though the parties remain with Bishops of opposite colors, Black obtains a 
very strong attack, which places great difficulties in the way of the defence. 

{e) Overlooking a beautifully-conceived and finely worked-out combination. 20 
QxRP, and if 20. . .BxRP; 21 B — B4 would have given good prospects of 
parrying the attack. 

(/) This and the foregoing move of Black are played in most admirable style, and 
leave no hope for the opponent. See diagram. 

iff) Of course, if 22 P x R, 22 Q x P; 23 R— B2, 23 Q— Kt 6 ch., and wins. 

Game No. 36. 

Played in the second round, April 22d. 
EVANS GAMBIT. 

White Black 

M. Tschigorin. W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 
2KK:i— B3 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 

3B— B4 

B— B4 

4 P— QKt 4 

BxP 

5P— B3 

B— B4 

6 0-0 

P-Q3 
PxP 

7P— Q4 

46 tschigorin's games. 

8PxP B— Kt3 28P— Kt4 BxKt 

9Kt— B3 Kt— E4 29PxB BxPch. 

lOB— KKt5 P— KB3 30 K— R sq. BxKt(/) 

IIB— B4(a) KtxB 31BxB P— Q5 

12Q_R4ch. K— B2(i) 32B— Q2 Q— Q4 ch. 

13 Q X Kt ch. B— K3 33 K— Kt sq. R— K7 

14Q— K2(c) Ki^K2 34Br-B2 RxR 

15P— K5 Kt— Kt3 35KxR Kt— B sq. 

16B— K3 P— Q4 36B— E6cli. K— Kt sq. 

17PxP PxP 37Q— K8 Q— Q3 

18 Kt— Q2 Q— Q2 (d) 38 Q— B8 Q— R7 ch. (g) 

19P— B4 B— KB4 39 K— K sq. Q— Kt6ch. 

20 Q— B3 P— B3 40 K— K2 (h) P— Q6 ch. 

21 Ki^Kt 3 QR— K sq. 41 K— Q sq. Q— Kt 8 ch. 
22QR— Ksq. R— K2 42 K— Q2 Q— Kt7ch. 
23 P— KR3 KR— K sq. 43 K— B3 Q— B7 ch. 
24B— Q2 RxR 44 K— Q4 Q— Kt7ch. 
25BxR B— B7 45 K— K4 Q— K7 ch. 

26 Q— R5 K— Kt 2 Drawn, (i) 

27 P— B5 R— K4 (e) 

(a) B — K8 is, we believe, preferable. 

(6) This novelty is the invention of Mr. Pollock and has a great deal in its favor, 
on general principles. It seems better anyhow than the usual continuation, 
12...Q~Q2; 13 Q x Kt, 13 Q— B2; 14 Kt— Q5, thi-eatening KtxB, or else 
Q— QR3. 

(c) In a subsequent game between the same players Mr. Tsehigorin played here 
P— Q5. 

(d) We much prefer R — ^K sq. , followed soon by K — Kt sq. 

(e) An excellent move which, by attacking the KBP once more, compels White to 
shut liis Queen out of play by the advance of the Kt P. 

(/) Black has played up to this remarkably well, but fails at the critical moment. 
There were two clear and simple ways of winning her(?, namely, in the first 
place, 80 ... R X B; 81 R x R, 31 B x Kt ; 32 P x Kt, 32 P x P, and wins with ease. 
Secondly, 80...Kt--B5; 81 Q— Ri, 31 BxKt; 32BxB, 32 P— Q5 (threaten- 
ing Q-Aj4 ch.); 33 RxKt, 33 PxB, and wins. 

(g) The series of checks that follow could do no good by proper play of the 
opponent, whereas we believe that simplv 38 . . . P — Q6 would have won, for 
if 39 B X Kt, 39 Q X B; 40 Q X KtP, 40 Q— K sq., etc. 

(/i) 40 K — Q2 would have compelled Black to retreat again bv Q — Q8, for if 40. . . 
Q— QB6cli.; 41 K— K2, 41 P— Q6 ch.; 42 K— B sq., 42'^Q— B4; 43QxKtP, 
and wins. By the play in the text, however, he still leaves winning chances 
for Black. 

(/) A strange consummation such as sometimes, but rarely, occurs between 
masters. Mr. Pollock could hardly have bestowed much attention to this 
I)ositi()n, or else he would not have consented to a draw. After 46 K — Q4, 
best (if 46 K— B4, 46 Q— Q7 ch. wins the Bishop), 46. . .Q— K2 threatens Q— 
Q2 ch. White has, therefore, nothing better than 47 B x Kt, whereupon 47 . . . 
y x B; 48 Q— K6 ch. (if 48 Q x KtP, 48 Q— Q sq. ch., followed by P— Q7, and 
wins), 48. . .Q— B2; 49 Q— B8ch., 49 K— Kt2, and should win. 

TSCHIGOBIN 8 OAHES. 

47 

Game No. 37. 

Played in the second round, April 25t]i. 

EVANS GAMBIT. 

JVhife 
M. Tscbigorin. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3B— B4 

4P— QKt4 

5P— B3 

60— O 

7P— Q4 

8PxP 

9Kt— B3 
10 QB— KKt 5 
IIB— KB4 
12 Q— R4 ch. 
13QxKtch. 
MP— Q5(a) 
loKt— K2 
16 P— QE4 
17B— K3 
18BxB 
19Q— Kt4 
20 Kt— Kt 3 
21Kt— Q4 
22 P— KB4 

Black 
W. H. K. PoUock. 

P— K4 
QKt-B3 
B— B4 
BxP 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
PxP 
B— Kt3 
Kt— R4 
P— KB3 
KtxB 
K— B2 
B— K3 
B-Q2 
Q-K gq. (6) 
KKt— K2 
Kt— Kt 3 (c) 
BPxB 
Q— K2 
KB— QBsq. 
R-B4 
QB^-QB sq. 

Position after White's 33d move. 

KtxQPch, 

Black— W. H. K. Pollock. 

White — M. Tschigorin. 

23Q— Q2(rZ) 

24 K<^K6 

25 Q— Q sq. 
26PxBch. 

27Q— Kt4(A) 
28 Kt— B5 

I^-B5 (e) 

Kt-R5(/) 

BxKt 

K— Kt sq. (g) 

KiH-Kt 3 

Q— QB2 (t) 

(a) Ck)mpare notes to the previous game between the same players up to this 
point. 

(b) It was better to develop the K side by Kt— K2 and R— K sq. or B sq. The 
Queen should have been reserved for a better post. 

(c) Q — Q sq. , in order to be enabled to retake with the RP in reply to B x B, seems 
better.' Now his QP becomes isolated and weak and is the mark of the hostile 
attack for a long time. 

{d)We do not see the object of this p eparation, and Kt — K6 at once appears 

stronger. 
(e) Black ought to have now retreated Kt — B sq. in order tj prevent White's 

strong entrance of Kt — K6. 
{/) If S4. . .B X Kt; 25 P X B ch., and should the Qa33a retake, he lo4e3 a piece b/ 

P— Bo. 
(g) Again be could not retake with the Qaeen on a3C0-i:it of P— B"), folio wi J h; 

Q— R5 ch. 
(A) The K side attack is congenial to Mr. Tschigorin's style, and he pursuss it here 

with consummate mastery. 
(0 Of course, if Q x P, he loses the Queen by Kt— R6 ch. 

48 

T8CHIG0RIN 8 GAUES. 

29P— K7 K— B20) 

30 QBr-Q sq. Q— B4 ch. 

31 K— R sq. R— B3 
32P— K5 0k) BPxP(/) 
33KtxQPch. (m) 

RxKt 

34PxPdisch. 

35 P queens ch. 

36 Q— Q7 ch. 
37PxR 

R— B3 

(n) 

KxQ 
K— B-sq. 

Resigns. 

(J) R — K sq., with the intention eventually of sacrificing the exchange for the 

advanced Pawn, would have given him a better chance of making a longer 

fight. But if R X P, White would have answered Kt x P. 
(k) The initiation of a spend idly conceived attack. 
(I) If 32...QPXP; 33R— Q8, 33KtxKP (or 33...R— K8; 84 P— K8 queening 

ch., 84 R X Q; 35 Kt^Q6 ch., and wins); 84 Q x P ch., 84 K— K3; 35 Kt x Kt, 

threatening P— B5 ch., and wins, 
(m) The crushing stroke. See diagram, 
(n) Finishing with accuracy and elegance. 

Game No. 38. 

Played in the first round, April 5th. 

EVANS GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 

Black 

M. Tschigorin. 

J. W. Shows 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QK1^B3 

3B B4 

B B4 

4P— QKt4 

B Et3 

5P QR4 

P QIl3(a) 

6P— B3 

Kt— B3 

7P Q3 
8 0—0 

P Q3 

0 O 

9B K3 

BxB 

lOPxB 

B K3 

11 QKt— Q2 

BxB 

12KtxB 

K1^K2 

13Kt— IW 

Kt— Kt3 

14 Kt— B5 

15 Q— B3 
16Kt-QR6 
17P— B4 
18P— Kt4 
19P— QKt5((i) 
20EPxP 

21 Kt— QKt 3 
22KxR 

23 Kt— B sq. 

24 K— R sq. 
25P— Kt5(e) 
26PxP 

27 Br— Kt sq. 
28K<^K4 
29 Kt— K2 

Q— Q2 
Q-K3(6) 
R— E2 (c) 
Kt— K2 
K— R sq. 
PxP 
P— QKt3 
KR— Rsq. 
RxR 

Kt(K2)— Ktsq. 
Kt— Q2 
P— KB3(/) 
Kt(Q2)xP 
P— Kt3 
K— Kt2(g) 
K1H-K2 

ia) A l>etter plan is 5. . .Q— PR4; 6 P- 
with an excellent attack. 

-Kt5, 6 Kt— Q5; for if 7 KtxP, 7 Q— Kt4, 

\b) Neces:^ry, as White threatened Kt x KtP. 

{n His l)e.st defence, as he could not afford P — Kt3 and allow the opponent's 
Knight to occupy the hole at his QB3. Nor was QR — Kt sq. a good resource, 
for Wliite, l)y subsequently advancing the wing Pawns on the Q side, would 
have forced the opening and commai^ of the QR file for his own Rooks. 

TSCmOOBIN 8 GAMES. 

49 

30Kt^B3 

31 Kt— B5ch. 

32 Kt— R6 

33 B— KBsq. 

34 K1^Q5 (A) 
35KtxKt(0 

36 Kt— Q5 

37 K— Kt2 

i— B2 
— R sq. 
Q— Kt2 

Kt(K2)— Ktaq. 
K:t(Kt8q.)xKt 
R— Raq. 
K— Kt sq. 
R— R7 ch. 

38K— Ktsq.O) R— R sq. 

39Q— R3 
40Q— K6 
41K<^B6(Jfc) 
42RxKt 
43RxRch. 
44Q— Q7 
45 Q— Q8 ch. 
46QxPcL 

Drawn (1). 

K— R sq. 
Kt— Kt sq. 
KtxKt 
R^KBsq. 
QxR 
Q— B6 
K— Kt2 

(d) Not a good move, as it brings the adverse inactive Rook into good play. 

(e) This advance is useless and even dangerous. 

(/) Black had now the superior game, and he might have waited with this 
advance until the adverse KKt removed and attacked the BP. In the mean- 
while he could prepare an attack on the Q side by B — R6, threatening 
Kt— QB4. 

(g) He was well enough defended on the K side, and on this and the next two 
moves he might Imlvo more effectively plaved B— B6. 

(A) Ad excellent move that ought to have yielded him some advantage. 

(i) This looks weU enough, but in reality we believe he has no more winning 
chances after this, whereas 85 Q x Kt left him a good margin of prospects of 
success. Black had nothing better than 85 . . . Q x Q (for if 86 . . . Kt — Kt sq. ; 
86 Q— Q8, threatening Kt^B6, etc.; or if 85...B^R sq.; 86 KtxBP), and 
then after 86 RxQ, 86 K— Kt2; 37 B— K6, White had much the superior 
game. 

(J) If K — KtS, Black obtains a winning attack by the reply Kt — B4 ch. 

(k) There is now nothing left but to play for a draw. 

(/) White cannot escape perpetual check after Black has moved K — B3. 

Game No. 89. 

Played in the first ronnd, May 4th. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

White 

J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2KKt-B3 
3B— B4 
4Kt— Kt5 
5PxP 

Black 
M. Tschigorin. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
P— Q4 
Kt— QR4 

6B— KtSch. P— B3 

7PxP 
8B— K2 
9Kt— KB3 

10 Kt— K5 

11 P— Q4 
12KtxQP 
13P— KB4(c) 

PxP 

P— KR3(a) 
P— K5 
Q— B2 (5) 
P X P en pass. 
B— Q3 

(a) In the "Modem Chess Instructor" 0 Kt — KR8 is recommended here as the 
safest plan to get rid of the counter-attack. 

(b) This or B — Q8 first are now considered the strongest continuations for Black. 
Mr. Tschigorin favors the move in the text. 

(e) This weakens the centre without any need. 18 Kt— Q2 is good enough to 

50 TSCHIOORIN^S GAMES. 

14 0— O B— KB4 28B— K;J B— B2 

16Kt— B3 QBr-Qsq. 29 Q— B2 K— Q4 

16Q— Ksq. KBr-Ksq. 30 R— Q3 * E— KR4(</) 

17 Q— Kt 3 Kt— B5 31 K— Kt sq. (A) B— Kt 6 ' 

18 P— Kt 3 (d) Kt^Q4 32 Q— Q2 R— K7 (?) 

19 Kt X Kt P X Kt 33 Q— Q sq. B— B2 0" ) 
20B— Kt4 BxKt 34 QR— KB3 Q— K4 

21 Q X B (f ) Kt— K6 35 R— B4 Q— K6 ch. 

22 BxKt RxB 36 QR— B2 RxR 
23Q— Q2(/) BxP 37 RxR B— Kt6 
24 Q— B2 BxP ch. 38 Q— K2 B x R eb. 
25K— Rsq. P— Q5 39QxB QxQch. 
26QR— Qsq. B— Kt6 40KxQ R— QB4 
27 Q— Q2 Q— K2 41 Resigns. 

protect the RP indirectly, for Black being a Pawn minus on the Q wing 
cannot venture on the sacrifice of a piece for three Pawns by 13. . .Bx P; 14 
P— KKt3, 14 BxP; 15 PxB, ISQxPch.; 18 Kt— B2, especially as Whites 
QKt is now ready at once to break the attack l)y Kt — KB sq. 

{(l) A weak move, of which Black takes advantage with a tine rejoinder. ^luch 
better was Kt^— B2, followed by B— Q3. 

(e) He had to lose a Pawn anyhow, for if 21 PxB, 21 B-— B4 ch.; 22 K— K sq., 
22Kt>— K6; 23 BxKt, 23BxB; 24 RxB, followed by RxP, but the plan 
adopted loses two Pawns ; besides that it disorganizes the K side completely. 

(/) Of coui-se, if Q X B, Black answers B— B4. 

(g) Some beautiful variations are hidden in this simple-looking attacking move. 

(70 It would seem, for instance, that White is likely to break the attack bv 31 R x 
R, 31 PxR; 32 Q— B3, but then would follow 82...P— K7; 33 C^-RS ch. 
(best, if 83 li— K sc]., 33 Q— K4; 34 Q--R8 ch., 84 B— Kt sq., and wins; or if 
33 Q x R, 33 Q— K6 ch., and wins), 33. . .Q— B sq. ; 34 Q x Q ch., 34 K x Q; i:r> 
R— K sq., 35 R— Q4; 36 B— Kt4 or K— Kt sq., 36 B— Kt6, and wins; for if 
RxP, Black mates by R— Q8 ch. 

(i) Black conducts the attxick with masterly skill. 

(J) After this, which has been beautifully prepared, the game is practically over. 
It is altogether a fine example of forcing on a K side attack in spite of all 
efforts of the opponent, who evidently tried to exchange pieces, as he had 
good hopes of obtaining a di-aw in the ending on account of the Bishops of 
opposite colors, although he was a Pawn behind. 

Game No. 40. 

Played in the first round, April llth. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

imte Bkick 3B— Kt5 Kt— B3 

J. Taubenhaus. M. Tschigorin. * Q^Irf ^ 0^0^^ 

IP— K4 P— K4 6 BxKt (a) QPxB 

2QKt— B3 QK^-B3 7KtxP R— K sq. 

TSCHIGOBIN S GAMES. 

61 

8P-Q4 
9PxB 

10 R— K sq. (b) 

11 P— Kt4 
12KtxB 

13 Q— Q3 

14 B— Kt5 

15 P— KR3 
16RxR 
ITRxRcL 
18Q— K4 
19Q— K2 
20 Q X Q cL 

BxKt 
KtxP 
B— B4 
B— Kt3 

BPxKt(c) 
Ki^B3 (d) 
Q— Q2 
RxRch. 
Br— Ksq. 
KtxR 
K<^Q3 
Q— K sq. 
KtxQ(e) 

21 P— B3 

22 K— B sq. 

23 K— K2 

24 K— Q3 
25B— K7 
26 B— B8 
27B— Kt4 
28 P— QB4 
29B— Q2 

30 B— K sq. 

31 B— Kt3 

32 P— B5 

K— B2 
K— K3 
K-Q4 
P— Kt4 
P— QR3 
P— KR3 
K-K3(/) 
Et— B3 
P— Kt4 
Kt— K sq. 
Kt-Q3 

Drawn. 

(a) The game is now transformed into a regular Double Buy Lopez, and this 
continuation leads to a dreary equalization. 

(b) A little trap that, we believe, presents the only feature of interest in this game. 
If Black be tempted to answer 10. . .KtxQBP; then 11 Q— KB3, 11 Kt— Q4; 
12 Q X P ch., 13 K— B sq. ; 18 Kt— Kt 6 ch. wins. 

(c) On principle we generally prefer taking with a Pawn toward the centre, and 
therefore BP x Kt was here undoubtedly better. 

(d) For now he might have kept the Knight strongly planted in the centre, at least 
for a time, by P — KB4 if he had previously retaken with the BP, as above 
su^ested. It would then have been somewhat compromising for White to 
attempt driving away the Knight by P — KB3, as Black could have continued 
with Q— Bi). 

(e) After the slaughter of the heavier pieces the game drags itself tediously into a 
draw. 

(/) Kt — Q8 does no good either, for White need not capture it since Black cannot 
well enter into the game by Kt — B5, on account of the rejoinder B — B8. 

Game No. 41. 

Played in the second round, May 14t]i. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

WJiite 
M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2KE:ir-B3 
3B— Kt5 

Black 
J. Taubenhaus. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt-B3 

4P-Q4 
5 0—0 
6P— K6(a) 

7 KtxP 

8 B— KB4(6) 
9QxKt 

PxP 
B— K2 
Kl^K6 
0—0 

KtxKt(c) 
P-Q4 

(a) 6 Kt X P, which, we believe, has not been suggested or adopted before, deserves 
a trial for the attack. Evidently Black cannot well answer 6 . . . Kt x P, on 
account of the reply 7 Kt — B5, etc. 

(&) This is novel, but we doubt the experiment. 8 Kt — B5 leads to some compli- 
cations, but by best play on both sides the game ought to be equalized. 

(e) The right move for Black, which, we think, ought to give him the pull, is 8. . . 

52 

TSOHIGOBIN S GAMES. 

10 P X P en pass, 

11 Kt— B3 (d) 

12 B— R4 

13 Q-B5 (gr) 

14 Q_B6 (h) 
15QxB 
16Q— K5 
17QxQ 

ISKR— K8q.(/) 
19 B— B6 
20Br-K7 
21P— QKt4 

22 B— E:R6 
23BxR 
24B— Kt7 

KtxP 
B— B4(e) 
B-B3(/) 
P— QKt3 
BxKt 
Kt— K5 
Q— B3 

QE—B sq. 

Kt— B4 

BxP 

Kt^Q6 

Kt— K4 (k) . 

KxB 

Er-Qsq. 

25RxQBP 
26 P— B4 
27E^Q7 
28B— B3 
29 B^QB7 
30B^B3(0 

31 Br— Q sq. 

32 K— B sq. 
33PxR 
34R— Q4 
35 P— QR3 
36R— Q6 
37RxKtP 

38 E— Kt 5 

39 K— B2 

("0 

R-Q7 
Kt— Q6 
R— K7 
R— K6 
B— R5 
B-Q2 
B— B4 
RxBch. 
KtxKtP 
P— QR4 
Kt— R3 
K^-B4 
Kt>-K3 
B— R6 ch. 
Resigns. 

P— B8, with the probable continuation : 9 li— B4 ch., 9 K— R sq. ; 10 Kt x Kt, 
10 KtPxKt; 11 Q— Q4, 11 PxP; 12 BxP, 12 Kt— B3; 18 Kt— B3, 13 P— Q8; 
14 QB— KKt8, 14 P— Q4, with the better game. 

{d) 11 B — Q8 or — R4 gave him a more legitimate chance to play for a win. 

(<') For now Black could have produced a dead draw by 11 . . .Kt x B; 12 Q x Q (if 
12 Kt X Kt, 12 P— QB8; 18 Q x Q, 18 B x Q leads to the same position), 12. . . 
BxQ; ISKtxB, 13 P— QB8; 14 Kt— B7 (or 14 Kt— Q4, 14 B— B3, with the 
better game. Again, if 14 Kt— Q6, 14 B— B2; 13 Kt x B, 15 B x B; 16 Kt— K7 
ch.. 16 K — Esq.; 17 Kt — B5, best [or else the retreat of the Knight will be 
cutoff byP— KKt8]; 16. . .QR—Q sq., with a slight suiieriority), 14. ..BxKt, 
and no more than a draw can be expected, on account of the Bisheps being of 
opposite colors, with even Pawns. 

(/) 12. . .Kt — K5; 18 Q X Q, 18 B x (j would have equalized his game, whereas now 
his position becomes inferior. 

(^) Finely played. He threatens to isolate the QP at once, and should Black 
retreat B— K2, then Kt — Qo would follow. Otherwise the attack might also 
be continued with QR — Q'sq. 

(A) AVhite has now two Bishops against Knight and Bishop, and he ha.s formed an 
ugly hole at QB6, which subsequently causes the opponent great embarrass- 
ment. 

(i) In order to reserve Kt — B4 in case White should take the QBP, whereupon he 
would either recover his Pawn or else exchange Knight for BLshop and remain 
with Bishops of opposite colors. 

U) We should have preferred the preparation 18 B— B6, 18 QR— QB sq.; 19 P— 
QKt 4, for it was important to hold the Knight aloof from the occupation of 
QB4. 

(A) Black seems to have labored under some false alarm, or else he must have 
overlooked that White's 27th move retains the great advantage of the exchange 
ahead. ' There was no danger in 22. . .KR — Q sq., and the game might have 
proceeded: 28B— Kt7, 23R— Ktsq.; 24RxQBP, 24KtxKtP; 25 P— QR8. 
25 Kt— Q6; 26 B— QR6 (or 26 B— K4, 26 QR-QB sq., etc.), 26...Kt^B4; 
27RxP (if 27KB— QB4, 27 R— Q2, etc.), 27...R— Rsq., with at lea.st an 
even game. 

(Q It is a feature of Mr. Tschigorin's style that he handles the Rooks with a 
special skill that we do not think has ever been equalled. Noteworthy 
instances of this peculiarity in his play over the board will be found in his 
second game against Mackenzie, played in the London tournament of 1888, 
and in his third game of the contest against the editor, played at Havana. 

TSCHIOOBDI S QAMES. 

53 

His analysis of the two games of the match by telegraph and conespondence 
between *St. Petersburg and London, as well as the actual conduct of those 
games in which Mr. Tschigorin was the leader of the Russian council, also 
compriae some beautiful manceuvres with the Rooks of the greatest depth and 
ingenuity. 
(///) White quietly threatens now B — K2, and Black has nothing left but the 
desperate sacrifice that follows, which, of course, cannot save the game. 

Game No. 42. 

Played in the first ro^nd, April 3d. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2KKt-B3 
3B— Kt6 
4P— Q4 
60— O 
6P— KS 
7 R— K aq. 
8KtxP 
9QKt— B3(ft) 
lOQxKt 

11 B— B sq. 

12 Ki^q sq. (c) 
13B— Q3 
14Q— K3 

Black 
M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
QKtH-B3 
Kt-B3 
PxP 
B— K2 
Kt— K5 
Kt^B4 
O— 0(a) 
KtxKt 
P— QB3 
P— Q4 
Kt— K6 
Q— R4(d) 
B— QB4 

15Q— K2 
16 Q— B sq. 
ITBxKt 
18B— Q3 
19B— KB4 
20PxP 
21QxR 
22ExQ 
23B— Kt3 
24 K— B sq. 
26P— KB3 
26RxR 
27 K— K2 
28B— Kt8 
29BxP 

30 B— QKt 6 

31 P— QKt4 

B— Kt6 

BxKt(e) 

B— R4 

QB^K sq. (/) 

P-B3(^) 

RxR 

QxQch. 

RxP 

P— KR3 

K— B2 

R^K3 

KxR 

B— Ksq. 

B— Q3 

BxP 

K— Q3 

K— k:3 

(a) We think that Black ought to exchange Knights first. 

(6) For now White might obtain the superior game by 9 Kt — B5, and if 9 . . . P — 

Q4; lOBxKt, 10 PxB (or 10...BxKt; 11 BxQP, 11 BxP; 12 BxPch., 

etc.); 11 KtxBch., 11 QxKt; 12 B— K8, etc. 
(e) He allows the opponent the majority on the Q side, and also exposes himself 

to a strong attack against the K wing. P x P in passing is certainly better. 
(rZ) Trying to catch a Pawn on the assumption that White might answer 14 

P— QB3, whereupon virould foUow 14. . .B— QB4; 15 P— QKt4, 15 BxQ, etc. 

Bnt we believe he might have been well satisfied with dislodging the adverse 

Queen quite out of play at B4 by B — QB4 at once, followed by P — KB4, with 

an excellent game. 
(e) This exchange spoils an excellent attack. P — KB4 was still the right play. 

White had no better answer than P x P in passing, whereupon the Knight 

would retake, with much the superior game. 
(/) Much preferable was 18. . .P— B8; for if 19 P— K6, 19 QR— K sq., and White's 

isolated Pawn ought to fall in the end. 
(ff) The opening of the KB file comes too late now and leads only to a series of 

exchanges which resolve the game into a dreary ending. 

54 tschigorin's games. 

32B— Q4 

B K4 

53K— Kt3(0 

B Q2 

33 K— K3 

BxBoh. 

64KxP 

B B3 

34KxB 

P— QKt3 

55 B— Kt5 

B— B6 

35 P— KB4 

K-Q3 

56B— K8 

B K7 

36 P— B3 

P— B4 cb. 

57B— B7 

B— Q6 

37 K— K3 

B QR5 

58B B4 

B B4 

38 P— Kt 3 

B Q8 

59 B Kt3 

E 02 

39B— Kt6 

B— Kt5 

60B— B4 

B B3 

40 P— E3 

B B4 

61P— Q5 0) 

B Q2 

41 K— Q2 

P— Kt4 

62 B Kt5 

B Kt5 

42PxP 

PxP 

63B— B6 

■ B— K7 

43 K— K3 

B Kt3 

64K— B3 

K— K4 

44B— K2 

B B4 

65K— Kt4 

K— Q3 

45 B— Q sq. 

B— Kt3 

66 B Kt5 

B Kt5 

46 B— Kt3 

B B4 

67 B B4 

B Q2 

47P— R4 

P Q5ch. (/O 

68 B Kt3 

B— Ksq. 

48PxP 

PxKtP 

69 B R2 

B-Q2 

49 K— Q2 

B Kt3 

70B B4 

B— K sq. 

50 K— B sq. 

B— B4 

The game -was 

given up as ' 
82d move. 

51 K— Kt2 

B K5 

on the 

62B— B4 

B— B3 

. 

(h) This practically amounts to a sacrifice of a Pawn, for Avhich there was hardlv 
any necessity. 47. . .K— B3; 48 P— K5, 48 PxP; 49 PxP, 49 K— Kt4, was 
sufficient to draw, and Black evidently could not hope for more. In fact, his 
difficulties to secure that event are now veiy much increased. 

it) White has played remarkably well in oi'der to gain the Pawn. 

(J) TJie position is very peculiar. As a rule, the Pawn ahead would win with 
Bishops of even color, but here the White King cannot gain entrance on either 
side. Black's defensive play with the Bishop, in order to avoid an exchange 
and not allow the adverse King to cross, deserves the highest commendation. 
The rest requires no comment. White tries in vain to outwit his clever 
opponent, who, by cautious manoeuvring, proves the futility of any attempt at 
winning on the part of his adversary. 

Game No. 43. 
Played in the second round, April 29th. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

5 0-0 

KtxP 

M. Weiss. 

M. Tschigorin. 

6P Q4 
7B— Kt3 

P— QKt4 
P-Q4 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

8PxKP 

K^-K2 

2 KKt~B3 

QKt— B3 

9K<^Kt5 

K<^-QB4(fl) 

3B Kt5 

P— QB3 

lOQ— B3 

B K3 

4B— E4 

Kt— B3 

11 Kt— B3 

KtxB 

TSCHIGORIN S OAUES. 

55 

12RPxKt 
13 R— K 8q. 
14Q— R5 
loKtxB 
16P— B4 
17P— Kt3 
18 Q— K2 
19B— Q2 
20 Kt— Q sq. 
21PxP 
22 P— B3 (fl) 
23B— KB 
24Q— B2 
25KtxB 
26R— K2 

27 R— KB sq. 

28 K— R sq. 

29 Q— Kt 2 

30 P— R4 (/) 

31 R— R sq. 
32R— R2 
33 Q— B2 
34K— Kt2(0 
35Kt— Kt4 

36 K— R2 

37 K<^B6 ch. 

(e) 

KlH-Kt3 
B— K2 
Q-Q2 
PxKt 
0—0 
P— B4 
Q— B3 

KR— Q sq. {h) 
P— B5 (c) 
KtPxP 
B— B4ch. 
K<^K2 
BxB 

R(Q8q.)-Kt8q. 
R— Kt6 
Q— Kt3 
Q— Kt2 
R— KB sq. 
P— QR4 
Q— Kt3(<7) 
Q-B4 
P— Kt3(/0 
R(Bsq.)-Kt8q. 
Q— B3 
P— R5 
K— Kt2 

38Q— R7 
39QxP 

R(Kt6)— Kt2 

RxPO') 

Position after Black's 39th move. 

ExP 

Black — M. Tschigorin. 

White— M. Weiss. 

40QxQ 
41ExE 
42E— E2 
43E— E6 
44E— Kt6 

ExEch. 
KtxQ 
P— Q5 (k) 
B^QB sq. 
Ki^Q sq. (I) 

(a) So far Black has adopted the best defence. But here we recommend, as in lh(^ 

*' Modem Chess Instructor," Kt x Kt, followed by P— QB3. 
(6) We do not think this as good as B— Q sq., with the object of posting the Bishop 

at Kt 3 eventually, but anyhow in order to play Kt— K2, whence the Knight 

might be manceuvred to KB4, or, if necessary', to the Q side, via QB sq. 
(c) P — Q5 first was more likely to yield an advantage, 
(r/) Correctly played. He now stops the advance of the adverse QP for a long 

time, for Black cannot afford to isolate his QBP. 
it) This Rook has afterward to return to his present post, and he might as well 

have remained there in order to watch against the advance of the adverse 

QRP. 
(/) We do not see much object in this. It was preferable to retain the Pawn 

unmoved, in order to play it one or two squares in the ending, where such an 

option is generally of great importance. 
((/) Q— Kt 4 was better, as it gave him the option of pushing the QRP further. 
{h) He suffers much afterward from the hole which he now creates without any 

necessity that we can see, for he might at once have played R — Kt sq., and if 

34 P — Bo, which apparently he was afraid of, then 34. . .R — KB s^i.; 35 P— 

KKt4, 35 P— Qo; 36 PxP, 36 QxQP, with an excellent attack. 
(t) As will soon be seen, K — R2 was far better. 
U) A very fine rejoinder. See diagram. 
(k) His subsequent play makes it evident that he did not intend to play for a draw, 

and, under the circumstances, this advance was rather risky. 
(0 The sacrifice of a Pawn was not justifiable in this position, for he could not 

expect to win by it while 44. . .Px P, threatening P— B7, and then to .support 

56 

TSOmOOBIN 8 OAHES. 

45PxP 
46E— Ktsq. 
47R— QBsq. 
48Kt— K8oh.(ni) 
49Kt-Q6 
50K— Kt2 

51 K— B2 

52 Kt-K4 

53 Kt-B6 oh. 
54Kt— Kt4(n) 
55 Kt— K3 
56RxP 

57 R— B7 ch. 
58RxRch. 
59Kt— Kt4(o) 

60 Kt— B6 

61 K— B3 

62 Kt-K4 
63K— K2 
64K— Q3 
65K-^B4 
66K— B5'(p) 

67 K— B6 

68 K— B7 
69Kt— Q6 
70 K— B6 

P— B6 

71 K— B5 

R-B5 

72 K<^B4 

P— B7 

73 Kt— Q2 

K— B sq. 

74 K<^K4 

E^B6 

75 K— B4 

K— K2 

76 K Q3 

K ■Q2 

77 K— K2 

E— B5 

78 K— B3 

K— K2 

79K— Kt2 

K^-B3 

80Kt— B2 

RxP 

81 K— B3 

Kt— Kt5 

82 Kt— Q sq. 

R-Q2 

83 Kt— K3 

KxR 

84 Kt— Q sq. 

K— K2 

85Kt— B2 

P— R4 

86K— Kt2 

Kt— Q6 

87KtxKt 

Kt— K8 ch. 

88K— B2 

Kt-B7 

89 K— K3 

K^-Kt5ch. 

90K— Q4(r) 

K1^Q4 

91K-B4 

Kt^K6 

92K— Q4 

K^-B4 

93 K— K4 

Kt— K6 

94K— Q4 

K1H-Q4 ch. 

95K— B4 

Kt— Kt5ch, 

Kt— B7 
K-Q2 
Kt— K6 
Kt— B4 
K— K2 
Kt— B3 
Kt— Kt5 
Kt— B7 ch. 
Kl^Kt5 
Kt— K6 ch. 
Kt— B4 
Kt— E3 
Kt— B4 
Kt— B3 
K— B2 
Kfc— Kt 5 {q) 
PxKt 
K— K2 
K-Q2 
K— B3 
K— Kt3 
K— B3 
K— Q2 
K— B3 . 
K— Kt3 
Drawn. 

this dangerous passed Pawn by Kt — Q5 or — Kt 5 left White no other option 
than to draw at once by 45 R— Kt 7 ch., 45 K— B sq. ; 46 Kt x P ch., 46 K— Kt 
sq.; 47Kt— B6ch.,etc. 

(?n) White is playing with deep foresight. It seems at first glance that 48 P — Q5 
would win, but on examination it will be found that it would compromise 
White's ewne; for after 48. . .PxP; 49 Kt xP, 49 Kt— K8; 50 K^-K3, 50 B 
— B6, and if now 51 . . .Kt x P; 52 Kt— Q5, winning the exchange. 

(71) Again, P— Qo looks better than it is in reality, for after 54 . . . Kt— Kt 2; 55 P— 
Q6 ch., 55 K—q sq.; 56 K^-Kt4, 56 Kt— B4, threatening Kt-Q6 ch., would 
win for Black. ' 

(o) White here weakens his chance of winning by allowing the advance of P — 
KR4, supported by another Pawn. 57 P — ^Kt 4 was the right move here, for 
then, if Black^s KRP advanced two squares. White could at least isolate it by 
exchanging. 

( p) The march upward on which White enters is of no use, and he has to retrace 
his steps. 

(q) A highly ingenious way of settling the draw, and one that required exact 
calculation in its support. The position is one of rare beauty in end play, for 
White is a Pawn ahead and his Pawns are all compact. He now also doubles 
one of hLs own Pawns, and all the Black Pawns are isolated. Yet, as will 
be seen, White cannot win. 

(r)If 90 P— R5, 90 PxP; 91 K— K4, 91 K— K2; 92 P— B5, 92 PxPch.; 93 
K K P, 93 P— R5; 94 K x P, 94 P x P, and draws. 

T8CHIG0RIN 8 GAMES. 

57 

Game No. 44. 

Played in the second round, May 9tli. 
FREXCH DKFENX^E. 

White 

M. T.schigorin. 

IP— K4 
2P— Q4 
3PxP(r*) 
4 KK<^B3 
6B— Q3 
6 0— O 
7QB— Kt5 
8 QKt— Q2 
9P— B3 

10 Q— B2 

11 P— KR3 

12 Kt X B 

13 B— Q2 

14 QR— K sq. 

15 Kt— R4 

16 Kt— Bo 
ITRxR 

18 R— K sq. 

19 Q— B sq. 
20QxB 
21RxRch. 
22Q— K3 
23B— B2 

Bhu'h 

M. Weiss. 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
PxP 
KKt— B3 
B-Q3 
0—0 
QB— Kt5 
QKt— Q2 
P— B3 
Q— B2 
BxKt 
P— KR3 
KR-K sq. 
Kt— B sq. 
B— B5 
R— K3 
KtxR 
Rr— Ksq. 
BxB 
K1H-B5 
KtxR 
K— B sq. 
Kt-B3 

24 K— B sq. 

25 P— KKt 3 
26K— Kt2 

27 P— B3 

28 Q— K5 

29 Kt— K3 

30 K— B2 

31 P— KR4 

32 Q— B4 
33B— Q3 
34K<^Kt4 
35 Kt— K5 
36B— B2 
37Q— Kt4 

38 Q— B4 

39 PxP 

40 Q— B sq. 

41 K<^Kt4 

42 Q— KR sq. 

43 Q— K sq. 
44Kt— K3 
45K— Kt2 

46 K— B2 

47 Kt— Kt2 

48 P— Kt 3 

Kt— K3 
Kt— Kt4 

Kt(Kt4)— K5 

K<r-Q3 

Kt (B3)— K sq. 
Q-K2 
Kt— B3 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— B3 

Kt (B3)— K sq, 
K— Kt sq. (b) 
Kt— B2 
Kt— K3 
Kt— KB sq. 
P— KKt4 
PxP 
P— B3 
Q— Kt2 
K— B2 
Kt— Q2 
Q— R sq. 
Q— K sq. 
Q— KR sq. 
Q-R7 (c) 
Kt— KB sq. {d) 

(a) The sameness of the development on both sides and the tediousness of the 
greater part of tliis game ought to show sufficient objection against the old 
form of continuation which is nere adopted. On this ground alone 3 QKt — B8 
is preferable, but we believe the first player will obtain at least a little the 
superior game against any defence that Biai^k can adopt in reply to the latter 
move. 

(6) So far, the naturts of the opening has resolved the pl^y on both sides, aa often 
happens in this debut, into a sort of game of patience, which presents to us no 
pomt of interest to comment upon, excepting that Black played the more 
passive part. Here it is noteworthy that White threatened 85 Kt x P, and, 
obviously, if 35 . . . P x Kt, mate in three moves would have followed. 

(c) Again, the marches and counter-marches of both parties .since our last note left 
anyhow no impre.ssion, and liad hardly much object. By the move in the text 
Black puts his Queen much out of play, but this would not have mattered 
much but for his next move, which allows the adversary to form a strong centre 
attack. 

{<!) It has been justly .said that a counter-attack is generally the best defence, and 
this holds good in the present case. His right play was 48. . .P — KB4, and if 
49 P— QB4, 49 P— Kt5; 50 PxKtP, 50 Kt— B8; 51 PxP, 51 Kt(B3)— K5ch.; 

58 

TSCHiaOBIN 8 OAHES. 

49 P— QB4 (c) 

50PxP 

51B— Kt3 

52Q-K4(gr) 

53QxP 

64BxKtch. 

55QxQBPcli. 

56 P— Q5 

57 Kt— K3 

58 Q— K4 (i) 

59 Q— R7 ch. 
eOQxQch. 
61 K— K2 
62K— Q3 
63P— R4 
64K— Q4 
65P— R5 

PxP(/) 
KtxP 
P— Kt4 
Q— R6 
Q— Q2 
PxB 

K1^K3 (A) 
Kt — Q sq. 
Kt— Kt2 
Kt-Q3(,/) 
K-K sq. 
KxQ 
Kt— Kt4 
K— Q3 

K«r-B2 

Ki^R3 
Kt— B2 

66 Kt— B4 ch. 

67 K— K4 
68K— B5 

69 P— Q6 ch. 
70P— Kt4 

71 K— K4 

72 K— Q5 

73 P— E6 

74 Kt— R5 

75 Kt— Kt 7 

76 Kt— B5 ch. 
77KtxKt 

78 K— B6 

79 P— Q7 ch. 
80K— Q6, and 

moves, (to) 

K-Q2 
K— Kt4 
K— K2 (k) 
K— B2 
Kt— Q5 ch, 
Kt— K3 
Kt— Q sq. 
K— K sq. 
K-Q2 
Kt-K3 
KtxKt 
K— Q sq. 
K— B sq. 
K— Qs5 
mates in 

(0 

four 

52 B X Kt, 52 Kt X B ch. ; 53 K— B3, 58 Q— R4 ch. ; 54 K— K3, best (if 54 P— 
Kt4, 54 Q — R6 ch., and wins), 54. . .Q— Kt4 ch., and draws. The feeble move 
in the text shows that Black underrated the clever plan of the opponent. 

(e) White has conducted this dreary game with remarkable patience and per- 
severance, always having an eye for the remotest chance of an attack, and his 
endurance is now rewarded with at least the gain of a Pawn. 

(/) There was hardly anything better. White threatened to enter at QRo, and if 
49...P— Kt3; 50PxP, 50PxP; 51 Q— Kt4, 51 K— K2; 52 Q— R4, 52 P— R4; 

53 Q — B6, and wins a Pawn. 

(g) On this excellent move White had evidently based his previously planned 

attack, whereby he temporarily gave up a Pawn. Clearly, Black has no escape 

from the loss of two Pawns in return. . 
(h) Best. If K— K2 or — Kt 2, White plays Kt— K3 with still more effect. 
(i) Much better than 58 Q— B6, 58 Q x Q; 59 P x Q, 59 Kt^QS; 60 P— B7, 60 K— 

K3; 61 Kt.— QB4, 61 Kt— B sq., etc. 
0')He could not avoid the exchange of Queens, for if he moved the King, he 

would either be subject to a check from the Knight or would have to allow 

White's Queen to enter at Kt 6. 
(A) If 68. . .Kt— Q5 ch.; 69 K x P, 69 Kt x P; 70 Kt— K5 ch., and wins. 
(?) The game could hardly be saved, but 70. . .P— R3; 71 P— Q7, 71 K— K2: 72 

P— Q8, queening, ch., 72 KxQ; 78 K x P, 78 Kt— Q5 would have prolonged 

the fight. 
(m) For Black must advance the BP, which White will take and queen first, with 

checkmate. 

WEISS* GAMES. 

Game No. 45. 

Played in tlie first round, March 29th. 

RUY 

LOPFy.. 

White 

Black 

16 KR-K sq. 

KtxP 

17 KtxKt 

PxKt 

D. G. Baird. 

M. Weiss. 

ISRxKP 

Q-Q2 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

19 B— KKt5 

2 KK<^B3 

QKt— B3 

20 KR— K sq. 

P— QB3 

3B— QKtS 

P QR3 

21Q-Q4 

B-KB4 

4B— R4 

Kt-B3 

22BxB 

QxB 
RxRch. 

5 0— 0 

KtxP 

23 Q— KB6 

6P Q4 

P— QKt4 

24RxR 

QxQ 

7B— Kt3 

P— Q4 

26BxQ 

K— B2 

8PxP 

B— K3 

26B— KKt5 

R— Ksq. 

9 QKt— Q2 

K<^-QB4 

27RxR(c) 

KxR 

10 P— QB3 

B— K2 

28 K— B sq. 

B— K4 

11 B— QB2 

0—0 

29B— K3 

P— QKtS 

12Kt-Kt3 

KtxKt 

SOB— Q2 

PxP 

13PxKt 

P— KB3(a) 

31PxP 

K-Q2 

\tt^' 

P— KKt3 

32 K— K2 

P— B4 

R— K sq. 

33K— Q3 

BxRP(rf) 

(a) A dangerous venture in this position. Much better and safer was Q— Q2. 

(6) For White could have proceeded now with 14 Kt — Q4, and if 14... KtxKt; 
15 Px Kt, and White's four Pawns against two majority on the K side would 
have been stronger than Black^s Q wing and could have easily formed a 
vehement attack against the exposed Black King. If, however, 14 . . . Q — Q2, the 
game might have continued: 15 Q— R5, 15 P— Kt8; 16BxP, 16PxB; 17 
Q X P ch., 17 K— R sq. ; 18 Q— R6 ch., 18 K— Kt sq. ; 19 &-R6, 19 Rr— B2; 20 
Kt X Kt, 20 Q X Kt; 21 QR— K sq., threatening R— K8, with a fine game. The 
move in the text only enables Black to fortify his defence. 

(c) This allows Black the usually telling majority of Pawns on the Q side, which, 
under the circumstances that the adverse King is much further away from 
the centre and Q witig than his own, is specially advantageous for the opponent 
in the ending. 27 R— QR sq., and if 27. . .R— K7; 28 K— B sq. was by far 
better. 

(<i)The capture of this Pawn, which seems very hazardous, gives Black good 

60 

34P— Kt3 
35 K— K2 (e) 
36PxP 
37 K— B3 (/) 
38K— Kt4(//) 
39PxP 
40 P— E5 
41KxP 
42K— Kt6 

43 P— B4 

44 P— B5 ch. 

45 B— B sq. 

46 K— B7 

47 P— B6 

v; inning cliances, with a sure draw at the worst. Th? latter contingency 
I»l£Xjk provided for with great ingenuity. 

(6) At tliis point White could have play<;d for V7i);i]ing a piece, and a very inter- 
esting and exceptional position might have aris.en, thus: .i5 li — Kt5, 85 P — 
gR4; 36 K— K2, 86 P— B5; 37 PxP, 87 PxP; 88 K— B sq., 83 P— QRo; 89 
B— B sq., best, 39 P— KRo; 40 K— Kt2, 40 PxP; 41 PxP, 41 BxP; 42 
KxB, 42 K— K8; 48 K— B4, 43 K— Q4 (if 48. . .P-Kt4 ch.; 44 K— K4. 44 
P— Kt5; 45 K— Q4, 45 P-Kt6; 16 Kx P, 46 P— Kt7; 47 B— K8, and wins), 
and Black will either keep the adverse King engaged on the K side or else 
himself enter at Q6 and draw by giving up the QRP for the BP. 

(f) An error that costs the game. The right play was 87 K— Q8, and if 87 . . . 
B— B3; 88 B— Kt5, 88 BxB; 89 PxB, 89 K— K3; 40 P— QB4, 40 P— Q5; 41 
K — K4, and draws. 

(y) With sharp insight Black grasp-i the winning situation. 

(h) If now 38 B— Kt5, 88 B x B; 89 P x B, 39 K— K3; 40 K— Kt4, 40 P— Bo, and 
wins; for if 41 P — Kt4, 41 P — Q5 gives him a passed Pawn, which White's 
King can no more catch. 

WEISS 

OAHES. 

P— KR4 

48 K— K8 

P— R7 

P— E5 

49B— Kt2 

KxP 

B K4 

50K--Q7 

K— K4 

B-KB3((/) 

51 K— B6 

B— K6 

P QB5 

52B— QRsq. 

K— K5 

PxP 

53 K— Kt 5 

K— Q6 

PxPck 

54 K— R4 

B— Bsq. 

K— K3 

55K— Kt5 

B K2 

P— R4 

56 K— B6 

B B3 

P— 115 

57K— Kt5 

BxP 

K— K4 

58K— R4 

BxB 

B— K2 

59 K— R3 

P— B6 

B QB4 

tiO Ensigns. 

P— R6 

Game No. 46. 

Played in the second round, April 23d- 

KUY 

LOPFZ. 

White 

Black 

7P— B3 

KKt— B3 

M. Weiss. 

D. (i. Baird. 

8P-Q4 
9PxP 

KtxKP 
0— O 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

10 B Q5 

Kt— QB4 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

IIB— K3 

K«^K3 

3B QKt5 

P— QR3 

12 QKt— Q2 

K<^QR4 

4B— QR4 

P— QKt4(a) 

13 Kt— K4 

P— QB4 (c) 

5B— Kt3 

B QKt2 

14BxB 

KtxB 

6 0—0 

B-K2(ft) 

15Q— Q5 

Q B2 

WEISS GAMES. 

61 

16 KE— Q sq. 
17B— KKt5 
18Kt(B3)xB 
19 Kt— KB3 (e) 
20P— KKt3 
21 Kt— Q6 
22QxQ 
23 Kt— Q4 
24KxKt(/.) 

25 P— KB4 

26 P— Bo 

27 P— K6 
28PxP 

29 B— K sq. (0 

30 P— K7 

31 P queens cb. 

KB- Q sq. (if) 
BxB 
P— KE3 
P-B5 (/) 
Kt(Kt2)— B4 
Q— B3 
PxQ{</) 
KtxKt 

K<r-Q6 

KtxQKtP 

Kt— E5 

PxP 

KtxBP 

K<H-Q4 

RxKt 

RxQ 

32RxRch. 

33 R— K2 

34 E^KB2 

35 R— Q sq. 
36RxRch. 
37 K— B2 
38K— K2 

39 K— Q3 

40 Q— KB sq. ch. 

41 R— K sq, ch. 

42 P— QR3 

43 R-K4 
44K— B2 
45E^K5 

46 E^K4 ch. 
47R— K5 

K— B2 
R-KB3(/) 
P— B6 
P-QR4 
KxR 
P— Kt5 
P— R5 
P— Kt6 
K— K3 
K— Q3 
K—Bi(k) 
P— Kt7(0 
K— Kt4 
K— B5 
K— Kt4 
K— B5 

(c) A defeuce introduced by L. ?a.u!sen, but we con-sider the early advance of the 
wing Pawns objectionable on principle. 

(6) If 6 . . . Kt— B8; 7 Kt— Kt 5 would be a strong answer. 

(f) Black is suffering much from the weakness of his QP, owing to the early 
removal of its natural protection, the QB. The move now made leaves two 
unpleasant holes in his Q centre. BxB, followed by Kt — BO, was a much 
better resource. 

(d) In accordance with modem theories the Kit is now often employed on the Q 
side instead of making attempts of en attack with that piece against the 
adverse King, as used to be the fashion among former masters. The systematic 
adoption of this feature of play occurred, we believe, first in the last match 
between the editor and Mr. Zukertort. 

(e) White's attack has been very well condacted up to this point, where, as Mr. 
Teed afterward pointed out, he could have won a Pawn, with a fine attack, by 
19 Kt X KBP, 19 K X Kt; 20 Q X Kt, for, obviously, if 20 ... Q x Q; 31 Kt— Q6 ch. , 
recovering the Queen, with a Pawn ahead. 

{/) Black is utilizing his opportunity of relea.sing hini.self in an excellent manner 

by this and the next two moves. 
(J/) Mr. Baird has thus far fairly outmanoeuvred his great opponent. He got rid 

of his weak QP and has formed a strong majority of Pawns on the Q side. 
(A) This error costs a valuable Pawn, The right play was PxKt, whereupon 

Black's Knight could not well enter at R-? or Q6 on account of the rejoinder 

P— QKt3. 
(t) Obviously necessary, as Black threatened Kt — K7 ch. 
U) Apparently to prevent the adverse King from eros.sing, and he only helps the 

opponent toward that object, as the latter gains time by opposing his Kook. 

which was much in his own way ; whereas 33. . .P — B4; 34 R {Q4)— Q sq., 34 

P — Kt.5; 85 K— B2, 35 P — B6 would have made victory sure on the Q sid«* 

iu a few moves. 
(k) In the way of his Pawn, that might have been well used for driving off thf 

adverse King. 42. . .P— B4 was much superior, for if 43 R— K4, 43 P— B7: 

44 K— Q2, 44 Ktr-B6, followed by Kt— R7, and wins. 
(I) The wrong Pawn. Again 43. . .P — B7 would have won easilv, for if 44 R — K 

sq. (or 44 K— Q2, 44 Kt— B6, as above), 44. . .Kt— K6; 45 K— B3, 45 Kt— QS 

ch.; 46 K— Q2, 46 Kt— Kt7; 47 K— B3, 47 Kt— B."), followed by KtxRP, 

and wins. 

62 

WEISS OAHE8. 

48 B^K4 ch. 
49P— KR4(«) 

50 B^K sq. 

51 R— Q sq. cL. 

52 R— K gq. ch. 

53 R— KR sq. 

54 R— K sq. 

55 R— KR sq. 
56K— Ktsq. 
57 K— R2 

K— B4(m) 
P— KR4 
K-Q5 
K— K6 
K— B7 
KxP 
K— B7 (o) 
K— Kt6 
K1^K6 
Kt— B5 

58 Rr-KB sq. (») 
59R— B4 
60RxP 
61R^QB4 

62 K— Kt sq. 

63 R^P (B6) 

64 R— Q6 ch. 

65 R— QB6 

66 R— Q6 ch. (s) 

Drawn, 

K—Kt7iq) 
Kt— K6(j) 
Kt— Q8 
K— B6 
K— K7 
K-Q7 
K— K7 
K— Q6 

{m) He sees at last that he may abandon the KP. 

(71) For if 49 RxP, 49 Kt— K6 ch.; 50 K— Kt sq., 50 Kt— Bo, followed by Kt— 
Q7, and wins. However it was not good play to advance that Pawn, as it 
facilitates Black's breaking in on the K side with his King, whereas the KRP 
could have been more easily defended. 

(o) Black has excellently manoeuvred to obtain a winning position again, but fails 
to seize it promptly. 54. . . K x P was safe enough, for if 55 R — K4 ch., 55 K 
~Kt6; 56 RxP, 56 Kt— K6 ch.; 57 K— Kt sq., 57 Kt— B8, followed by Kt— 
Q7, and wins. 

(p) White has most ingeniously constructed a fine position that would draw by 
perpetual check or stalemate in case Black played P — B7 at once or Kt — Q7. 

(q) If 58. . .Kt^Q7 (or 58. . .P— B7; 59 R— B8 ch., 59 K x P; 60 R— B4 ch., 60 K 
— Kt 4; 61 R — B5 ch., and the King is hunted by perpetual check, or stalemate 
is effected); 59 R— Ktsq. ch., 59 K— B7; 60 R— Kt2ch., 60 K— K8; 61 R— Kt 
sq. ch., 61 K— K7; 62 R— K sq. ch., 62 K— Q6; 63 R— K3 ch., 63 K— B7; 64 
RxPch., and draws. But, nevertheless, Black could have won here by t\w 
following course : 58. . .P— KKt4; 59 P x P, 59 P— B7; 60 P— Kt 6, 60 P— Kt8. 
queening ch. ; 61 R x Q, 61 P x R, queening ch. ; 62 K x Q, 62 Kt— Q7 ch. ; 63 
K moves, 68 Kt— K5; 64 P— Kt 7, 64 Kt— B8, and wins. 

(r) The Chess editor of the Australasian, of Melbourne, pointed out that Black 
could win here by Kt x P. 

{s) The only proper course. If he tried P— QR4. Black would answer Kt— K6, 
followed by Kt — B5, winning. 

Game No. 47. 

Played in the second round, May 25th. 
SICILIAN OPENING. 

White 

I). G. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2 KKir-B3 
3P-Q4 
4KtxP 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P— QB4 
QKt— B3 
PxP 
Ki^B3 

5 Kt— QB3 
6B— K3 

7 B-K2 (b) 

8 0—0 
9P— QR3(c) 

10 Q— Q2 
IIP— R3(d) 

P— Q3(a) 
P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 
B-Q2 
O— O 
R— Bsq. 
Kt— K4 

WEISS GAMES. 

63 

12 KE^K sq. 
13BxKt 
UQR^-Qsq. 
15Q— Q3 
16B— Kt5(e) 
17 B— B sq. 
18Kfc— Q5 
19 P— QB3 
20K— Kt4 
21 B— K3 
22Q-Q2(sr) 
23 Kt-B3 

Kt-B5 
RxB 
P— QE3 
R— Bsq. 
P— R3 
P-QKt4(/) 
Kt— K sq. 
P— K3 
Q— Kt3 
Q— Kt2 
K— 112 
P— QI14 (h) 

24 Kt— B2 
25B— B4 
26Q— K2 
27QxB 
28PxQ 
29 K<^Q4 
30RxB 
31 R— Kt4 
32R^OB8q. 
33 B— K5 (k) 
34B— Q6 
36BPxR 

B— B3 

BxKP 

BxKt(B6) 

QxQ 
P— Q4 

BxKt(j') 

P-R5 0') 
E^B5 
Kt— Kt2 
P— B3 
RxR(0 
R^B2 

{a) This move, in conjanction with the next, has come into fashion of late, having 
been introduced in the Frankfort Toomament b^ Louis Paulsen. It is a line 
of play that cannot be easily demonstrated as disadvantageous for the second 
player, yet we think that the entrance which White obtains for his pieces at Q.5 
should give the first player the superior game, as Black must sooner or later 
play P — K3, and thus weaken his QP. 

'6) Instead of which we would recommend 7 Kt — Q5, which, we believe, was first 
proposed in the Deutsche Schachzettung. "White then threatens Kt — Kt 5, and 
if 7. . .P— K8 (or 7. . .P— QK3; 8 KtxQKt, 8 PxKt; 9 B— Kt6, and wins); 8 
KtxKtch., 8QxKt; 9 Kt— Kt5, 9Q— Qsq.; 10 QB— KB4, 10 P— K4; 11 B 
— K3, with much the superior game. 

'c) We see no use for this. 

id) Not as good as P— KB3. 

(e) Also useless, unless he intended to exchange the adverse Knight, followed by 
Kt— Q5. 

{/) We do not approve of this advance, which, as will be seen, subjects him to a 
strong attack on his Q side. 

(g) White has obtained the better game but practically abandons his advantage 
with this and the next move. Kt — Kt8, followed by B — Q4 or B — B4, was the 
proper play. 

(h) With this and the following move Black forces the gain of a Pawn, with an 
excellent game. 

(0 An ill-advised and premature exchange. After R — B5 instead (whereupon, of 
course, White could not capture the Kt P without losing the Bishop), followed 
by P— ^Kt5, Black had it all his own way. 

(j) This becomes now necessary, for White threatens P — QR4, which would soon 
win both Pawns on the Q side; and if 80. . .R— Bo, then still 81 P— QR4, and 
then if 31.. .RxR; 32 PxR, followed accordingly by R — R sq. in reply to 
P X P, or by R— QB sq. in answer to P — Kt 5, in each case with the superior 
game. Or, if 81 . . .R x P; 32 R x R, foUowed by R— R.sq. ; or, if 31 . . . P x P; 
32 Rx R, followed by R— K4. 

(A) White's last three moves are each very finely conceived, and are evidently in 
accordance with his general plan of attack, which he has managed very cleverly 
to wrest from his opponent, albeit the latter is a Pawn ahead and has a Knight 
against a Bishop, with a compact position of Pawns, whilst White's Pawns are 
broken up. With the excellent move in the text he deliberately provokes the 
advance of the hostile BP in order to gain time, as will be seen. 

(l) If R — Q sq., White answers, of course, B — K7, winning a Pawn, and this 
contingency was clearly aimed at by White's 83d move. We, however, would 
have preferred that line of play, followed by R — QKt sq. , which would have 
secured the draw more easily than giving the opponent an open file for his 
Rook by the exchange in the text. 

61 

sen— B8 

37B— Bo 

38R^B6 

39 B— B8 ()») 

40RxP 

41B— Q6 

42BxP 

43BxR 

44 K— B sq. 

45 B— K5 
46P— B4 
47 K— K2 
48B— Kt7 
49 K— Q3 
50B— E6 
51B— Kt5 

52 B— B6 

53 B— K5 
54K-K2 
55B— B6 
56K— Q3 
57B— Kt5 
58B— B6 
59 B— Kt 5 
60B— Q8 
61B— Kt5 

62 K— B3 

63 P— B3 
64P— R4 
65K— Q3 
66 K— B3 
67B— R6 
68K— Q4(?) 
69KxP 
70 K— B5 
71KxP 
72KxP 
73P— Kt5(r) 
74K— Kt4 

(m) All very well plaj'ed by White. 

(w) A more simple and sure draw could have been effected, we believe, bv 39 K — 
Ktsq.; 40 BxKt. 40KxB; 41 RxP, 41 Rr-QB2; 42 R^-Q6, 42 R— B7; 4» 
R X P, 43 R X KtP; 44 R x P, 44 R— Kt 6, followed by R x RP. 

(<<) Best, apparently. If 41 . . . P— K3; 42 P x P, 42 P x P; 43 B— B5, 48 R— Q2; 
44 R— QKt 6, etc. Or, if 41 . . . Kt x B; 42 R x Kt, 42 P— Q5; 43 R— Q5, 43 K— 
Kt 2; 44 R X KP, 44 R^Q2; 45 K— B sq., and should win. 

(/)) This is one of those positions which is generally lost by the party that fii-st 
attempts to win. The manopuvring on both sides had made no impression, 
and Black could easily draw, either by alternating the move of the King or 
that of the Knight, provided tliat he either kept the QP defended or wa.s ready 

WEISS 

OAMKS. 

Kt— B4 

75 K— B5 

K-Q2 

R— QKt2 

76K— Kt6(«) 

K— B sq. 

Kt— Kt2 

77 R— B6 

Kt— B4 

P— K4 (>() 

78 B Kt5 

Kt— Q5cli. 

Kt— B4 

79K— Kt6(0 

KtxBP 

R— Kt3(o) 

80 K— R7 

Kt Q5 

RxR 

81P— Kt6 

Kt— B3 ch. 

K— Ktsq. 

82K— R8 

Kt-R4 

K— B2 

83 B K7 

Kt^Kt2 

K— K3 

84 B— QKt 4 

Kt— Q sq. 
Kt^Kt 2 

Kt— K2 

85B— Q6 

Kt— B3 

86 B— B7 

Kt— R4 

P— R4 

87 K— R7 

Kt— Kt2 

Kt-K2 

88K— R6 

Kt— R4cli. 

Kt— B4 

89 K— Kt5 

Kt— K3 

K Q3 

90 K— B6 

Kt— Q5 ch. 

K— B3 

91 K Q6 

Kt— B4 ch. 

Kt— R5 

92 K— Q5 

Kt— K2 ch. 

K Q2 

93 K Q6 

Kt— B4 ch. 

Kt B4 

94 K— B5 

K— Kt2 

K— K3 

95 B Q8 

K— B sq. 

K— Q3 

86B— Kt5 

K— Kt2 

K— Q2 

97 B 08 

K— B sq. 

K— K3 

98 B B8 

K— Kt2 

Kt— Q3 

99 B Kt5 

Kt— Kt 6 

Kt— QB5 

100 B Q8 

Kt^B4 

K— B4 , 

101 B Kt5 

Kt— Kt6 

K— K3 

102 B Q8 

Kt— B4 

Ktr-K6 

103 B B6 

Kt— Kt6 

K<^B5 

104B— Q8 

Kt— B4(m) 

K— B4 

105 B— Kt5 

Kt— Kt2(u) 

Kt— K6(w) 

106 K Q5 (tt?) 

KxP 

Kt-B5 ' 

107 K— K5 

K— B3 

KtxKtP 

108 K— B6 

K<^B4 

Kt— B6 

109 KxP 

Kt— Kt 6 

KtxPch. 

110 P— B5 

K Q2 

K1^B5 

111 P— B6 

K— K sq. 

K— K3 

112P— B7cli. 

K— B sq. 

Kt— Q3 

113 B R6ch. 

Resigus. 

WEISS GAUES. 

65 

at once to capture the KtP in case the adverse King moved away. But he has 
allowed himself now incautiously to be trapped into a losing position. 

(q) Taking advantage of the advei-se error with great precision. 

(r) But here White again gives his opponent a reprieve. K — Kt .5 would have 
decided the victory completely, for wherever Black played the Knight, K — B6 
would win easily. 

(») Again P — Kt 6, followed by K — Q5, with the view of crossing over to the K 
side, would win. 

(0 K — Q5 wins in a similar manner, no matter which Pawn Black takes. 

(u) The repetition seems to have been made under pressure of time limit. 

(p) This helps the adversary to see his way clear, for White obviously gains a 
move now in playing the King to the other side, as he will attack Pawn and 
Knight simultaneously. But White could have won without that previously, 
and at present if he had only hit on the idea of abandoning the KtP. For, 
supposing 105. . .Kt— Kt6; 106 K— Q5, 106 K x P; 107 K— K6, 107 K— B8; 108 
K— B6, 108K— Q3; 109 KxP, 109K— K8; HOB— Q8, llOK— Q2; 111 B— R5, 
111 K— K3; 112 B— K sq., and wins. 

(u>) He sees it at last, and the rest is obvious. 

Game No. 48. 

Played in the first round, April 6th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3B— QKt6 
4 0— O 
6P— Q4 
6R— Ksq. 
7PxKP(a) 
8P— QR4 
9EtxEt 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 

QKt— B3 

KKt— B3 

KtxKP 

B— K2 

Ki^-Q3 

KtxB 

Kt (Kt4)-Q5 (b) 

KtxKt 

lOQxKt 
IIB— KB4(c) 
12 P— QR6 (e) 
13K<r-QB3 
14Bx*KP 
15 Kt— K4 (/) 
16Ktr-KKt3 
17B— Q2 

18 P— QB3 

19 P— QKt 4 
20B— Q4 
21RxR 

0—0 

P— QB3(d) 
P— KB3 
PxKP 
R— B2 
P— Q4 

QE— K sq. 
P— QR3 
B— Q3 
QxR 

(a) This sacrifice is the invention of the present leader of White, but it is 

dangerous if well met. 
(6) For the Pawn may be maintained by 8 . . . Kt x KP; 9 R x Kt, 9 Kt— Q8; 10 Q 

— K2, 10 P— KB8, etc. 
(c) An excellent move that greatly hampers Black's game. 
{d)If P— KB3 at once, White would answer Q— B4ch., followed by PxPand 

B X P, with a winning game. But the move in the text, nevertheless, was 

dangerous, as it left a weak spot at Q3. K — R sq. was a better preparation. 
(e) Loss of time. QKt — B3 was much stronger. 
(/) 15 B — Q6 was certainly better and gave him drawn chances, whereas now 

Black, with his two Bishops, the open KB file and the majority of Pawns on 

the Q side, obtains the superior game. 

WEISS 

O^HKS. 

E— K« 

39 K^-B3 

IzW 

QxE 

40 Kt-K5 ch. 

P— KKt3 

41B— B6(n) 

P— KKt4 

42 Kt— KB3 

PxPch. 

K— B2 

43KxP 

B— B8 

P— KR4 

44Ktr-Q4cli. 

K-Q2 

P— K5 

45 K— B3 

P— E5 

B— KB4 

46 K<^KB5 

B— Q6 

B— K5 (t) 

47Kt— R6 

B— K2 

B Q6 

48B— K3 

P— E6 

B— QB5 

49 B QBsq. 

B— KKt4 

P— B4(A) 
BxPch. 

50BxP 

BxKt 

51K— Kt4 

B— K5 

B— Q3 

52KxP 

BxP 

B— B2 

53B— B5 

K— B3 

BxEP 

54B— Q4 

K— Kt4 

B— Qsq. 

55 Eesigns. 

66 

22 K— K sq. 
23BxR 
24Q— K3 
25BxQ 
26B— Q4 
27K-BSC 

28 P— R3 (/■ 

29 KiH-K2 

30 K— K sq. 

31 P— KB3 

32 K— B2 
33B— KB8(/) 
34PxP 
35B— Q4 

36 K— K3 (T) 

37 P— KB4 (m) 

38 Kfc— Kt sq. 

(g) Black has a slight advantage for the ending, and also apparently relies on his 
superior skill, which does not disappoint him in the end play. 

(h) Just what his astute opponent is aiming at. White ought to have avoided 
placing the Pawns on the K side on white squares, where they were liable to 
attacks from the adverse QB and rather difficult to defend. K — K sq., followed 
by Kt — B sq., was the correct play. 

(i) Skilfully compelling the advance of another adverse Pawn on a white square 
and still more weakening the Pawns on the E side. 

J) An error of judgment. His only chance of playing for a draw consisted in 
moving the Bishop backward and forward on the Q side diagonal from 
Q4— R7. 

{k) A fine move that virtually decides the game by breaking the chain of Pawns 
on the Q side and isolating the QRP. 

(I) Making it more easy for the opponent, but even after his best defence, 36 B — 
Kt 6, 36 K — K2, Black had much the superiority, as White could not make 
much use of his Bjiight and King.' If, for instance, 37 Kt— Q4, 37 B— Kt 6 
ch.; 38 K — Kt sq., 88 B — KB5, threatening B — Q7, with a winning game. 

(m)If 37B— Kt6, 37BxB, followed by P— QR4 or K— K8, wins equally for 
Black. 

(w) He could not hope to save the game by Kt x P, for Black would answer K— B4, 
followed by B — K2. The move adopted was the only one to stop the adverse 
passed RP, and of course only effects his object temporarily. 

VrEISS GAMES. 

67 

Game No. 49. 

Played in the second round, May 6tli. 

PETROPPS DEFENCE. 

White. 

M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2 KK<^B3 
3KtxP(o) 
4K1^KB3 
5P— Q4 
6B— Q3 
7 0— O 
8P— QB4 
9Kt— QB3 
lOBxBP 
11 B— K3 
12P— QR3 
13P— QKt4 
U B— K2 

15 Q— Q2 

16 Kt^K4 

17 P— KR3 
18Ki^Kt3 
19 P— Q5 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

P— K4 
KKfr-B3 
P— Q3 
KtxP 
P— Q4 
B— K2 
0—0 

Kt— KB3(6) 
PxP 

B— KKt 5 (c) 
Kt— QB3 
P— QR3 (d) 

P— KR3 
K1^KR2 
B— K2 
B— KB4(e) 
B— Kt3 
Kt— Kt sq. 

20 K1^K5 

21 B— QB4 
22KtxKt 

23 QB^K sq. 

24 P— KB4 
25B— Q4 

26 P— KKt 4 

27 P— B5 
28Kt— Kt6 
29K1^B4 
30QxB 

31 B— B3(o) 
32RxR 
33 Q— K4 
34K— Kt2 
35 Q— K8 
36R— K7(A) 
37BxKt 
38Q— B7 
39QxQ 
40P— B6 

Kt-KB3 
Kt— K5 
BxKt 
B— R2 
B-Q3 
B— KB4 
B-Q2(/) 
P— KB3 
R— Ksq, 
BxKt • 
K— R2 
RxR 
B— QB sq. 
Q-Q3 
Kt— Q2 
P— QKt4 
K1^K4 
PxQB 
QxR 
PxB 
Resigns. 

(a) The old attack, which onght only to equalize the game, whereas, we believe, 
3 P — Q4, recommended in the "Modem Chess Instructor," gives White a 
manifest superiority. 

(6) A very good move if properly followed up. 

(c) Instead of this pinning, which, as usual, is disadvantageous, Black should have 
played QKt — Q2, followed by Kt — Kt 8, so as to keep command of the isolated 
QP, which White could not well advance in the meanwhile, as Black would 
^terward continue the attack upon it by KB^-QKt 5. 

{d) Q — Q2 was much better. 

(«) Here and afterward it would have been much better to withdraw the Bishop 
right back to B sq. at once, where he has ultimately to take refuge. 

(/) Compare our previous note. 

(jr) White has obtained an overwhelming superiority of position, which would 
have warranted a sacrifice of the exchange at this point that was likely to lead 
to a more brilliant finish. 81 B — K6 was the right move, for if 81 ... B x B; 83 
BPxB, and Black could never escape the effects of the double action of 
White's Queen and KB on the open diagonal, besides the bearing of Bishop 
and Rook against the KBP. 

(h) This finishes the game virtually. 

WEISS GAMES. 

Game No. 50. 
Played in the first round, April 4th. 

SICILIAN OPENING. 

White 
M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— KKt3(a) 
4B— Kt2 
5P— Q3 
6KKt— K2 
7P— KB3{6) 
8B— K3(c) 
9Q— Q2 

10 K^-Q sq. 

11 P— QB3 
12P— Q4 
13 P— KB4 
14P— Kt3 

15 Kt— B2 

16 0—0 

17 P— B4 

18 QBr-Q sq. 

19 K— R2 
20PxP(fl) 
21 P— K5 
22BxP 
23 Kt— Q3 
24P— Kt4 
25KtxKt 
26KxP 

Black 
H. E. Bird. 

P— QB4 
QK<^B3 
P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 
P-Q3 
P— KR4 
B— Q2 
K<^-Q5 
B^Kt sq. (d) 
Q-B sq. (e) 
Kt-QB3(/) 
P— Kt3 
Kt— R4 
K^-R3 
Q— B3 
B— Kt4 
B-Q2 
Q— B sq. 
K<H-B3 
KtPxP 
PxP 
K1^B4 
P— R5{A) 

Kt^Kte 

PxKtch. 
Q-B2 

27BxKt(2) 
28KtxP 
29PxB 
30Q— K3 
31Q— B4(ifc) 
32 B— K3 (0 
33R— Q2 
34 P— B5 (to) 
35R— Q4 
36Q— Kt5(n) 
37BxQ 

38 R(Q4)— Q sq. 

39 R— QKt sq. 
40RxR 
41P— R4 
42P— R5 
43PxP 

44 K— Kt4 

46 P— R6 
46P— B6 

47 P— R7 
48R— QRsq. 
49RxP 
50BxP 
51R^R6 

52 K— B4 
63K— Kt4 

BxB 
BxKt 

P-B3 0) 
K— B2 
Q— R4 
QxRP 
Q-R4 
R— Kt5 
RxKtP 
Q— K8 ch. (o) 
PxQ 
K— K3(») 
KR— QKtsq. 
RxR 
P-R4(9) 
PxP 
P— R5 
P— R6 
B— K5 
BxP 
R— Kt sq. 
R— KR sq. 
RxP 
R— R8 
R^Kt8ch. 
R— B8ch. 

Drawn. 

(a) One of Louis Paulsen's imiovstions. It is a good way of leading the first 
player's game in this opening. 

(6) Good and necessary in order to be enabled to advance P — KKt 4 should Black 
try to open his KE file by P — B5. 

(c) We prefer Kt — Q5 and then leaving himself the option as long as possible of 

retreating Kt — K3, which latter square is now blocked. 
((f) The meaning of this at such an early stage is not clear, 
(e) Q — B2 was a better development, though the text move threatened eventually 

B X UP, and whichever piece would take the Bishop, then Queen might retake, 

followed by Kt— B6 ch. 
(/) Black finds a hitch in his contemplated plan. If 11 . . .B x P; 12 B x Kt, 12 

BxB; 18 B X B, and wins. 
/g) Attack and defence have been well conducted by the two respective players. 

YTBISS' GAMES. 69 

But here we would have preferred P — Q5, followed soon by Kt — Q3, which 

would have made the subsequent attack by P — K5 much stronger. 
(h) The sacrifice of the Pawn to which this leads, though it opens the R file, is 

not warranted by the position. 
(I) Best, if 29 P X P, 29 Kt X P; 30 Q— B4 (or 80 Kt x Kt, 30 B x Kt ch., and wins), 

30...P— Kt4, and wins. 
(y)29. . .Q X P ch.; 30 Q — B4 would clearly effect no more than an exchange of 

Queens, for, obviously, if Q x B, White mates by Q x P; but, nevertheless, this 

was his best play under the circumstances, and gave him better prospects of 

drawing than the plan which he pursues. 
{k) After Black's last bold move the sacrificing tactics were quite appropriate, and 

we believe that 31 B x P, 31 K x B, best; 82 R x P, followed by Q— KKt 5, were 

good enough to win. 
(/) Again a little more enterprise on the part of White would, we think, have 

secured him the victory, thus : 32 P— K6 ch., 32 K— Kt 2, best; 33 B x KP, 33 

Q— B6ch.; 34 Rr-B3, 34QxRch.; 35QxQ, 35BxQ; 36KxB, 36RxPch.; 

37 K — K4, followed by R— -Q7, and then he may capture the RP or advance 

the QBP, with a winning game, 
(m) A feeble move ; and all the more so as he could have instituted a fine attack 

by R— Q6. 
(n) White had no other means of parrying the adverse attack. If 36 P x P, 36 

P— K4, foUowed by R-K sq., and wins. Or if 36 R— Q6, 36 RxB ch.; 37 

QxR, 37PxR; 38RxPch., 38 K— Kt2; 39 RxQP (or 39 KPxP, 39 R^K 

sq. ; 40 R— K6 [if 40 Q— B2, 40 Q— B6 ch. , and wins], 40 . . . R x R; 41 Q x R, 41 

Q— B6 ch., followed by Q— B3, and the passed RP will win), 39. . .Q— B2, etc. 
(o) An ingenious answer which secures a draw at least, with better prospects of 

winning for his own side on occount of his strong RP. 
(p) Unnecessary delay. KR — QKt sq. was by far stronger. 
{q) By best play on both sides the game was drawn under any circumstances, but 

it would have given White more trouble to effect that result if Black had 

exchanged Pawns here, so as not to allow the opponent to form a passed 

Pawn. 

Game No. 51. 

Played in the second round, May 3d. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White Black 5 B— Kt2 B— K2 

H. E. Bird. M. Weiss. !^ qZo^ 0—0^ 

IP— KB* P— Q4 8Q— Ksq. Kt— B3 

2P— K3 KKlr-B3 9 P— QE3 P— QKt4 

3 KK1^B3 P— QE3 (a) 10 P— Q3 (fc) B— Kt 2 (c) 

4 P— QKt 3 P— K3 11QK1^Q2 Br-Bsq. 

(a) Such a wing Pawn move should be retained at least. 

(6) White's disposition of Pawns is quite contrary to modern maxims of play. 

His centre is thoroughly weak. 
(e) It was much better to leave this Bishop at home for a time, in order to keep 

70 

WEISS GAMES. 

12Q— Kt3 

13 O— R3 

14 Kt— K5 
15BxKt 

16 B— Kt4 

17 Kt— B3 

18 Kt— Q4 
19PxP 

20 QR— B sq. 

21RxR 

22BxKt 

23BxB 

24P— QKt4 

26RxRch. 

26 Q— B3 

27 K— B2 

28 Q— Kt 3 
29K— K2 
30 Q— K sq. 
31PxP(i) 
32P— Kt3 
33Q— B3 
34Q— Kt2 
35P— R4 

36 K— Q2 

37 Kt— B2 
38KtxP 
39K— B3(i) 
40 Q— KB2 
41K— Q2 

42 Kt— B2 

43 K— B sq. 
44Q— Q2 
46 Q— B3 

(h) 

Kt— K sq. 
B— B3 {dj 
KtxKt 
Kt— Q3 
P— B5 
R— K sq. 
P X KtP (e) 
P— Kt3 
KxRC/') 
Kt— B4 
KPxB 
QxB 
R— QBsq. 
BxR 
Q— K2 
Q— R5 ch. 

P— QR4 
PxP 
B— Q2 
Q— Q3 
Q— R3 
B— K3 
P— R3 
Q— R5 

P-Q5(./) 
B— Q2 
Q— Q8 
Q— R8 ch. 
Q— R7 ch. (0 
B— K3 
B— Kt6 
Q— R6 
BxKt 

46 QxB 

47 K— Q sq. 
48K— Q2 

49 P— R5 (m.) 

QxP 
Q— R6 
P— Kt5 

PxP(«) 

Position after White's 49th move. 

P— R5 

Black — M. Weiss. 

White— H. E. Bird. 

50 Q— B8 ch. 

51 QxP 

52 K— Q sq. 
63K— K2 

54 K— B3 

55 Q— K5 ch. 

56 Q— Q6 ch. 

57 Q— Q8 ch. 

58 Q— Q4 ch. 

59 Q— Q8 ch. 

K 

Q- 
Q 
Q- 
P- 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
Drawn. 

Kt2 

Kt7ch, 

Kt 8 ch. 

B7ch. 

Kt6 

-Bsq. 
— Kt sq. 

Kt2 
— Kt sq. 
— Kt2 

the KP protected, for the likely contingency that the formation of a centre- 
attack commencing by P — KB3, after withdrawing Kt — K sq., would become 
feasible. 

(</) Black fails here to disorganize the adverse K centre and Q side, which he 
could have done apparently by 18. . .P— Q5; 14 P— K4, 14 P— KB4; 15 P— K-i 
(if 15 P X P, 15 P X P, and Black will soon obtain the stronger position on the 
open K file, owing to the bad placement of White's pieces), 15. . .Kt — QB2, 
followed by Kt — Q4, and White's two holes at K8 and QB8 will be sore points 
in the latter's game. 

{e) We can see nothing for Black to fear that was not on the board before, and the 
opening of the adverse game was quite premature, for it could be well reserved 
with advantage, as White could not well initiate the exchange of Pawns. 
19 . . . P — KKt 8 at once was the right play; and if, for instance, 18 KtP x P, 19 
QPxP; 20P— K4, 20BxB; 21 PxB, 21 KtxP, etc.; for if 22KtxKP, 22 
Q — Kt3 ch., and wins. 

(/) Allowing the opponent the open file for the Book without good cause. 20. . . 
Kt— B4, with the probable continuation, 21 R x B, 21 B x B; 22 B x Kt, 22 KP 
X B; 2:j Kt— B3, 23 K— Kt2; 24 Q— Kt8, 24 Q— QB4, was good enough. 

WEISS' GAMES. 71 

0/) Black rightly distrusts his position for the ending with Bishop against Knight, 
for with one Pawn isolated and another doubled he would have been at a dis- 
advantage after exchanging Queens. 

(h) An excellent answer if properly pursued. 

(») White ought to have retaken with the Queen, forcing the exchange. It was 
then an easy matter for him to get his King in at Q4, after withdrawing the 
Knight, which could then manoeuvre to QBo. Being sure of breaking in 
finally by P — K4, he could so time his Knight and Pawn moves as to make it at 
least extremely diflScult for the opponent to save the game, whereas he himself 
would not run the slightest risk. 

(J) The sacrifice of the Pawn is, we believe, in no way justifiable. We see no 
danger for Black in moving Bishop or King, and sometimes even the 
Queen, backward and forward, as White could gain nothing by Q — K5, for he 
could not well get his Knight into play without leaving Mmself open to 
perpetual check or the loss of a Pawn. 

(k) A very weak move just at the time when he had a winning game in hand by 
89 P — R5 (an ingenious move adopted later on by Mr. Bird at a critical 
juncture), 39 . . P x P (if 89 . . . P— KKt 4; 40 P x P, 40 P x P; 41 Kt— B3, threat- 
ening P— B6, and wins); 40 Kt — K2 or P — K4, with a fine game. 

{I) Very fine and deep play, for, as will be seen, he has to keep on the R file in 
order to play subsequently Q^I14, which recovers the Pawn and gives him 
some winning chances. The closer check, which is usually better, would not 
have served that purpose, for after 41. . .Q— Kt7 ch.; 42 Kt— B2, 42 B— K8; 
43 Q— K sq., followed by Q— QB sq.. Black will have to stniggle for a draw 
only. 

(m) An ingenious move that in actual play succeeds to save a hopeless game. See 
diagram. 

(n) But not in analysis, we think, for the following line of pl&y seems to win : 
49. . .P— Kt 6; 50 Q— B8 ch., 50 K— Kt 2; 51 Q— B3ch. (or 51 P x P, 51 Q— R7 
ch.; 52 K— Q sq., 52 P— Kt7; 53 Q— B8 ch., 53 K x P; 54 Q— QB6 ch., 54 K— 
R2, and wins), 51 . . . K— R2; 52 P x P ch., 52 K x P; 53 Q— B6 ch., 53 K— R2; 
54 Q— KB6, 54 Q— R7 ch.; 55 K— Q sq., 55 P— Kt7; 56 Qx P (B5) ch., 56 K— 
Kt sq. (the only move to win); 57 Q— Kt4 ch., 57 K— R sq.; 58 (^—BS ch., 58 
K— Kt2; 59 Q— Kt 4 ch., 59 K— B3; 60 Q— R4 ch., 60 K— K3; 61 Qx P ch. or 
P— B5 ch., 61 K-— Q2, and wins. 

Game No. 52. 

Played in the second round, May 16th. 

SICILIAN DEFENCK 

White Black 4 P— Q4 PxP 

M. Weiss. H.E.Bird. 5 KtX^P B-Kt2 

IP— K4 P— QB4 7B— K2 B— Q2 

2QKt— B3 QKt— B3 8 O— O P— KB4(a) 

3Kt— B3 P— KKt3 9 P— B4 P— E5 

(a) The rush of this Pawn here and on the next two moves only tends to weaken 

it for the end, and should have no attacking effect if coolly met. 
(6) White has thus far properly shown no fear of the hostile wing attack, but here 

72 

10Q-Q2 
IIP— KKt3 
12 QR— Q sq. (6) 
13KtxKt 
14B— Q4 
ISQxB 
16BxKt 
ITU— Q2 
18P— Kt3 
19RxQ 
20B^Q3 
21Br-B2 
22 R— K3 
23B— Q2 
24 P— R4(/) 
26PxP(o) 

26 K— B2 

27 Kt— R2 
28P— B4 
29PxP 
30R— B3 
SlKtxR 

32 R— Kt 2 

33 K— K so. 
34K— Q2 
35K— Q3 

36 Kt— R2 

37 K1^B3 
38P— Kt4 

WEISS 

QAVrF^ 

P— R6 

39 PxP ell. 

KxP 

K1^B3 

40R-Ktsq. 

RxR 

Kt— "KKt5(c) 

41KtxR 

B B6 

PxKt 

42 Kt— Q2 

B— K5 ch. 

BxB 

43K— B3 0-) 

P— Q5 ch. 

Q-Kt3 

44K-B4 

B — Q4 ch. 

BxB 

45 K— B5 (Jfc) 

p — Q6 

R^R4 

46 1'- Kt5 

PxP 

QxQcli.(rf) 
R-QB4 

47 PxP 

B— K3 

48P— Kt6 

B— Bsq. 

P— B4 

49 K— B4 

B— R3ch. 

R— R4(e) 

50 K— B3 

K-^4 

Rr-Kt sq. 

51 P— Kt 7 (l) 

BxP 

K— B2 

62KxP 

K— K4 

R^Kt5 

53 K— K3 

B-Q4 

PxP 

54 K<^Kt sq. 

B Kt2 

R^B4 

55 Klr-B3 

B— R3 

R^K5 

56 Kt— Q sq. 

B— B5 

P Q4 

57 Kt— B2 

B B8 

PxP 

58 Kt— Q sq. 

B R3 

RxR • 

59 Kt— B3 

B— B5 

B^Kt5 

60Kt-R4 

B R3 

P— K3 (h) 

61 Ki^B5 

B— B5 

P-R3 

62 K<^-Q7 ch. 

K— K3 

K— K2 

63 Kt— B8 ch 

K— B2 

K Q3 

64Kt— R7 

K— Kt3 

R^K5 

65 K— B8 cL. 

K— B2 

R— KB (t) 

66KxQ7 

K— K3 

P-K4 

Drawn. 

it was necessary to provide first a retreat for his important QB by K — Kt s(£. , 

and then his game woald have been perfectly safe, with the advantage in the 

centre, 
(c) Well played. Black obtains the superior position after this. 
{d) All in excellent form. The strong centre gives him a great pull for the ending, 

and this exchange has been judiciously timed after bringing his KR into good 

play. 
{€) With the object of inducing the opponent to advance the RP or else of 

keeping the adverse Knight engaged for the defence, but probably R — Kt sq. 

at once would have saved time. 
(/) An injudicious advance which weakens his QKtP. 
(^) This exchange of Pawns ought to have been put off as long as possible in 

order not to strengthen the adverse centre. 
(/0 33...P— Q5; 33Kt— Kt5 (or 33 K1^-Q5, 83 R— Kt sq.), 33 P— R4 was, we 

believe, superior. 
(/') Injudiciously playing for more than a draw, which he could easily accomplisli 

by returning with the R — Kt 5. 
(J ) This is a very instructive position. If 43 Kt x B, 43 QP x Kt ch. (it should be 

noted that retaking with the other Pawn would lose, for White's King would 

retreat to K3 and afterward easily stop both passed Pawns by K — K3 or — Q3 

accord inglv, while Black's King could not prevent both the adverse Pawns 
from queening) ; 44 K— K3, 44 K— Q4; 45 P— Kt 5, 46 P x P; 46 P x P, 46 K— B4; 

WEISS GAMES. 

73 

47 P— KKt 4 (or 47 K— B4, 47 K x P; 48 P— Kt 4, 48 P x P; 49 K x KtP, 49 
K— B5, and wins), 47 . . . P x P; 48 K x P, 48 P— Kt «, and wins. 

(k) Beautiful play and leading to a winning advantage, we believe. 

(t) But with this White, we think, throws away a won game, which he might 
have obtained by 51 Kt— B4, with the following most probable as well as 
instructive continuation : 51 . . . K — K 5 (we see nothing better; if 51 . . . K — B4; 
52 Kt— K3 wins the KBP, and afterward, by manoeuvring the Knight back to 
K8 and then to Q sq. and KB2, all Black's Pawns will soon fall, leaving White 
with two combined passed Pawns ahead, which wins easUy); 52 Kt—^ ch., 
52.K— B6; 58 KtxP, 68 K— Kt7 (or 58. . .K— K7; 54 Kt— Q4 ch., followed by 
Kt— Kt3); 64P— Kt4, 54KxP; 55P— Kt5, 65 K— Kt8, best; 66P— Kt6, 56 
P— R7; 57 P— Kt7, 57 P— B8 queening; 58 P— Kt8 queening ch., 58 K— B7, 
best; 59Q— KtSch., 69 K— B8 (or 59...K— K7; 60 Q— K8 ch., and either 
mates by Q— Q2 or wins the Queen by Kt— Kt 3 ch.); 60 K— Q2, and wins. 

Game No. 63. 

Played in the first roond, April 1st 

KUY LOPEZ. 

White 

J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— K4 
2KK1^B3 
3B— Kt5 
4P— Q4 
50— O 

6 R— K sq. (a) 

7 KtxP (6) 
8QxEt 
9PxP 

10 KB— QB4 (c) 
UBxKt 
12 Kt— B3 
13Q— K4 
14B— B4 

Bhck 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
PxP 
B— K2 
0—0 
KtxKt 
P-Q4 
KtxP 
B— K3 
BxB 
B— K3 
P— QB3 
R-Ksq. 

15 QR— Q sq. 
16Kt— 114 

igRxRck 
20P— KB3 • 
21P— B3 
22 P— QKt 3 
23Kt— Kt2 
24B— Q2 
25 P— QKt 4 
26B— Ksq. 
27KtxR 
28Ki^K3 
29P— QR3 
30K— B2 
31P— Kt3 

Q— Kt3 
Q— Kt5 
BxQ 

B— KKt 6(e) 
RxR 
B— KB4 
B— K2 
P— QKt4 
B— B3 

tU 

RxBch. 
B— B7 
B-T-Kt8 
K— B sq . 
B— Q6 
K— K2 

(a) A deviation from the usual course which) like most others in this opening, 
leads to no more than an even game. 

(b) If 7 P— K5, 7 Kt-K sq. ; 8 Kt x P, 8 Kt x Kt; 9 Q x Kt, 9 P— Q4, with a good 
game. 

(c) Not a good plan. Developing a new piece by QKt — B8 was by far better. 

(d) The exchange of Queens leaves him with the inferior game on account of the 
adverse two Bishops and the weakness of his Q side Pawns. Much better was 
17 Rr-Q4, 17 Q— Kt4; 18 B— K5, for if 18.. .B— Q4; 19 Kt— B8, 19 BxQ, 20 
KtxQ, etc. 

74 

WEISS' OAHES. 

32 P— KB4 (/) 

33 K— B3 
34B— B2 

35 Kt— Q sq. 

36 Kt^KS 

37 K— K4 

38 K— Q3 (g) 
39Kt— Kt2 
40K— Q2 

41 B— Q4 

42 Kt— K3 ch. 
43KtxB 
44K— K2 

45 B— K3 
46BxP 
47B— Q2 
48PxP(/) 
49 B— K3 
50B— Q2 
61 B— K sq. 

52 K— B2 

53 K— B sq. 
54KxB 
55P— R4 
56P— R5 

57 P— R6 

58 P— R7 
59K— Q2 
60 P queens 

K— K3 
B— Qsq. 
P— 114 
B— B7 
B— Kt6 
P— B4cL. 
P— QR5 
B— B5 ch. (h) 
K-Q4 
P— Kt3 
K— K5 
PxKt 
P— Kt4 
PxP 
B— B3 
P— R5 (i) 
BxRP 
B— B3 
P— B5 
P— B6 ch. 
B— R5 ch. 
BxB 
K— Q6(i-) 
KxP 
K— Kt6 
P— B6 
P— QB7 
P— B7 

P — QB8 queens 
. ch. 

Position after Black's 54tli move 
K-Q6 

Black— M. Weiss. 

hi H ■ ■ ^ 

^^IM i^KBB^^^Mll HH 

■ 9 B ■ 

TlStH ■ ■ 

it S*HtB ' 

■ ■ ■ B. 

■_t_a_«_i 

White— J. H. Blackbume. 

61KxQ 

62 K— Q2 

63 K— Q3 
64K— KB 
65QxQch. 

66 K— K4 

67 K— Q4 

68 K— B3 

69 K— B2 

70 K— B sq. 

71 Besigns. 

P queens ch. 
Q— B7 ch. 
Q_QB7 ch. 
Qr-B6 ch. 
KxQ 
K— Kt6 
KxP 
K— E7 
P— R6 
K— Kt6 

{€) Herr Weiss is one of the greatest masters of simplifying positions, and he can 
well rely on his judgment in the ending, which he conducts with exemplary 
skill. 

(/)The ultimate cause of his disaster. He ought to have avoided as long as 
possible to move this Pawn, which protected his centre against the entrance of 
the adverse King. 

((/) Of course he could not capture the Pawn on account of B — B7 ch. 

(?i) This move should be compared with the finish, where Black wins on account 
of the weakness of White's QRP. The intuitive judgment shown by Hen- 
Weiss in the conduct of this ending would alone be sufficient to qualify him as 
a master. 

(I) The insight of Herr Weiss right into the end of this classical game is above 
praise. The manner in which he dissolves the adverse Pawns on the K side is 
only a little item of his deep calculation. 

(^•) Nothing better. If 48 B— K sq., 48 P x P; 49 P x P, 49 B— K4, and wins, for 
wherever White's King moves. Black forces entrance for his King on the other 
side. 

(A) The rest speaks for itself, for every move of the opponent is forced. Verj'- 
likely, Herr Weiss had foreseen the present position and played for it some 
moves ago, before exchanging Bishops, but, undoubtedly, he must have fore- 
calculat^ the very end of this game sixteen moves later, when he did effect 
the exchange and relied on the move in the text. 

WEISS GAKES. 

76 

Game No. 54. 

Played in the second round, April 26tL 

CENTRE COUNTER GAMBIT. 

WJdte 

M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2PxP 

3 P— Q4 (6) 

4 QKt-B3 
5K<^B3 
6Kt— K5 
7Kir-B4 
8B— K2 
9P— Q6(c) 

lOKtxP 
llQxKt 
12P— KE4 
13P— R5 
UQxQ 
ISPxP 
16 B— Q3 (rf) 
17B— Q2 
18 Ki^K5 
19KtxKt 

20 QB— QB sq. 

21 R— E3 (h) 

Black 
J. H. Blackbume. 

P— Q4 
KKt— B3 (a) 
QxP 
Q— QR4 
P— B3 
QKt— Q2 
Q— Qsq. 
P— KKt3 
PxP 
KtxKt 
B— Kt2 
0—0 
Kt— B3 
RxQ 
RPxP 
B— K3(c) 
QR— B sq. 

Klr-Q2(/) 

RxKt 

B-B5(y) 

BxB 

22RxB 
23PxR 
24 R— Kt sq. 
26B— Q2 
26RxR 
27B— K3 
28K— Q2 
29 K— B2 
30K— Kt3 
31K— B4 

32 K— B5 

33 P— B3 
34P-R4(i) 
36K— B4 
36B— B2 
37B— K3 
38B-Q4 
39B— K3 
40PxPch. 
41K— Kt3 
42B— B2 
43K— B3 
44P— Kt4 
45 PxP 

RxR 
R— B7 
B— Q6 (i) 
RxP 
BxR 
P— R3 
K— B sq. 
B— K4 
K— K sq. 
K-Q2 
B— B2 
P— K3 
P— Kt 3 ch. 
K— B3 
P— B3 
B— Q3 
P— K4 
P— Kt4ch. 
PxPch. 
K-Q4 
P— B4 
P— Kt4 
PxP 
B— QB4 

(a)QxP St once is more generally adopted among practitioners of this rarely 
played opening. 

(6) We think that White may also get the advantage by 4 P— QB4, .4 P— B8; 6 P— 
Q4, 5PxP; 6P— B5, etc. 

(c) White had, we believe, the superior position, but by this advance and ite 
consequent exchanges he loses aU advantage and even yields the opponent an 
important attacking diagonal for his KB. 

(d) Not good. He ought to have shut out the adverse KB from bearing on his 
QKtP by advancing P— QB8. 

(«) An excellent square for the Bishop now, and it shows great judgment on Mr. 

Blackbome's part that he makes no attempt of advancing his KP. 
(/^ A fine rejoinder which gives Black the best of the game by force. 
Ogr)One of tiiose unassuming but yet forcible moves that show fine powers of 

judgment Black now wins a Pawn, play as White may. 
(A)If 21 BxB, 21 RxB; 22 P— QB8, then, of course, 22. ..RxP, etc. 
(0 All this is played with consummate skill by Black. 
(J) ^® think he would have stood a better chance for a draw by not advancing 

this Pawn, for then it would have taken Black a much longer time to form a 

passed Pawn, and this was the chief danger for White. 

76 

WEISS 

OAHES. 

46 B— K sq. 

P— K6()fc) 

53 K— Q3 

B— B7 

47PxPch. 

KxP 

64B— E5 

P— Kt6 

48B— Q2 

B-K6 

55 B B7 

•P— Kt7 

49 B— K sq. 

E— B6 

56B— R2 

B— Kt3(0 

50 K— Kt4 

KxP 

57 K— Q2 

K— Kt5 

SlKxP 

K— B6 

68 Besigns. 

52 K— B4 

P— Kt6 

(A?) Black must have looked very far ahead before making this advance, for, as will 
be seen, the winning process after this is very difficult and required the greatest 
exactitude in its execution. 

(1) The ending is a fine study, and is played with masterly skill by Mr. Black- 
bume. 

Game No. 5«5. 
Played in the first round, March 25th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2KK1^B3 
3B— Kt6 
40— O 
5P-Q4 
6Q— K2 
7BxKt 
8PxP 
9 R— Q «q. 

10 P— K6 (2.) 

11 Kt— K5 

12 Q— B5 ch. 
13KtxKtP 
14 Q— R6 
15Q— R3 

Black 

C. F. Burille. 

P— K4 
QKt^BS 

Klr-B3 

KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt— Q3 
QPxB(a) 
Kt— B4 
B— Q2 
PxP 
B— Q3 
P— Kt3 
Kt— Kt2 
Ki^B4 
Br-KKt sq. 

16QxRP 

17Q— R5 

18 Kt— R4 disch. 

19KtxKtch. 

20QxQ 

21 Kt— B3 

22P— KKt3 

23B— Kt5ch. 

24P— KR4 

25 Kt— K4 

26R— Q2 

27KtxB 

28RxP 

29 PxP 

30 R— B6 ch. 

31 R— B sq. 
32BxR 
33B— Kt5 

B^Kt2 
Q-B3 
K— K2 
QxKt(c) 
PxQ 
R— Rsq. 
KR^R2 
K— Bsq. 
P— B5 (d) 
B— KKt5 
B— B4(c) 
PxKt 
PxP 

R-Q2(/) 
R— B2 
RxR 
R— R4 
Resigns. 

(a) Black drops into an ingenious tr^, but an old one, whicli, if we recollect 
rightly, first occurred between Herren Lepke (White) and L. Paulsen (Black) 
in a game played at Leipzig about the year 1868. 

(b) The Pawn here given up is well invested. 

(c) PxKt might have made a longer fight of it, but his position waa inferior, 
besides his being a Pawn behind. 

(ef) Quite ruinous. It was most important for his defence to keep the adverse 
Knight aloof as long as possible. 

WEISS GtAXSa. 

77 

(e) Speculating on Bishops of opposite colors for helping to draw, but the position 

of his King is too much against him. 
(/)It was lost anyhow. If 29. . .Bx P; 80 B— KB sq. ch., 30 K-Kt sq.; 31 R— 

Q8 ch., 81 K— Kt2; 82 B— B6, and wins. likewise if 29. . .B— Q2 (or 29. . . 

R— B2; 80 B— B6, and wins); 80 R^B sq. ch., 30 K— K sq.; 81 R— K sq. ch., 

81 K— B sq. ; 82 B— B8, and wins. 

Game No. 56. 

Played in the second round, April ISth. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

JBUu^ 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
QKt-B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt-Q3 
KtxB(a) 
Kt— Kt sq. 
BxP 
PxKt 
P— KB3 
Q-^K2 

13B— B5 
UBxQ 
15K1^E4 
16QB--Qsq. 

17 Kt— B5 

18 K<r-K3 

19 KB^K sq. 

20 P— QB3 
21R-Q2 
22B— Kt4 
23EtxEt 

24 KB— Q sq. (e) 
25B— Q6 

26 P— QR3 

27 P— QB4 (</) 

Kt-B3 
K— B2 
P— QKt3 
P— Kt3 
B— E3 
QE^Bsq. 
KEl— Qsq. 
Kt— R4 
Kt-B5 {d) 
BxKt 
B— K3 
P-KKt4(/) 
E^B3 
B— Kt6 

White 
C. F. Burille. 

IP— K4 

2KK1^B3 

3B— Kt5 

40— O 

6P— Q4 

6P— Q5 

7Kt-B3 

SKtxKt 

9 P— Q6 (6) 
lOKtxBch. 
UQxP 
12 B— K3 (c) 

(a) The simpler plan, in order to break the attack, is 7. . .P — K5; and if 6 P x Kt, 
8 QP X P; 9 B— K2 (or 9 B x P ch., 9 P x B; 10 Kt— K5, 10 B— Q2, and retains 
his Pawn, with a good game), 9. . . P x Kt, etc. 

(6) There is more, we believe, in this ingenious sacrifice than comes out in actual 
play in this game. 

(e) Here it is where White seems to fail in grasping the position. The right move 
was Kt— Q2, with the following likely continuation : 12. . .Q— K2; 18 Kt— K4, 
18 Q X Q; 14 Kt X Q ch., 14 K— K2; 15 Kt— Kt 5, 15 Kt^B8; 16 P— QKt 8, with 
a strong attaclc 

(d) The Pawn ahead warranted him to play for more than a draw, which was the 
likely result after this exchange, as the parties remained with Bishops of 
opposite colors. We would have preferred Kt — ^Kt 8, followed soon by P — Q3 
and Kt— B4. 

(e) Loss of time that turns out serious in this position. 24 P — B4 instead was 
likely to lead to the following continuation : 24. . .Px P; 25 R — K7 ch., 25 K 
— Kt sq. ; 26 QR X P, 26 R x R; 27 R x R, 27 R— K sq. ; 28 B— K7, with a very 
probable draw. 

(/) With this fine move Black prevents P— KB4 and keeps the adverse Bishop in 
jeopardy, for the latter can be several times attacked where he stands, and is 
threatened with loss by P— QR4 if driven back to QKt 4. 

(^)He had nothing better, as B— Kt6, followed by K— K8 and P— <JR4, were 
threatened. 

78 

WEISS OAHES. 

K— K3 

P-QR4 

P-Q4 

KB— QB sq. {h) 

B (B3)— B2 

BxP 

B— Kt6 

P— Kt4 

P— KKt6(t) 

P— QKt5(ife) 

Position after Black's 37th move 

P— QKt5 

Black— M. Weiss. 

28 B— E sq. 
29B— B3 
30B— Q3 
31 B— QB sq. 
32B— KB3 

33 K— B sq. 

34 K— K sq. 

35 K— Q2 

36 B— K sq. 
37B— Kt3(y) 
38 Besigns. (l) 

(A) Black has most skilfully squeezed the gain of a second Pawn out of this 
POTition, and he is m no hurry to take it, but groups his forces in fine strategic 
order for the attack which he is ready to direct at several points. We have 
naraiy ever seen such a cleverly constructed position with Bishops of opposite 
colors after the exchange of Queens. 

(t) A b^utiful master coup that cuts oflE the adverse King from his retreat on the 
K side, and thus forces the gain of a piece by his next advance. 

y) A little better was R— R6, but only for a slight prolongation of the game that 
could not be saved. o r o e 

(*) Compare diagram. 

^^ ^'^J^^. 88 PxP, 88 K^B7 ch.; 89 K— Q8 (or 89 K— K8, 89 P— Q5 ch.; 40 
A— Q8, 40KxBP, threatening B— B7 ch. or B— B5eh.. and wins; or if 39 
K— Qsq., 89 R— B8ch.; 40 K— Ka, 40 R [B sq. ]— B7 ch. ; 41 K— B sq., 41 
B— B6 ch. , and wins), 89 . . . P— B4, and White has no resource. If, for instance. 
40 P— B4, 40 P— K5 ch. ; 41 K— K3, 41 P— Q5 ch. ; 42 K x P, 42 R-Q sq. ch. ; 
48 K— K8, 48 R— Q6 mate. ■* ' -% -h , 

"White— C. P. Burille. 

Game No. 57. 

Played in the first round, April 9th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 

A. Bum. 

1 KK1^B3 
2P-^4 
3P— B4 
4 QKt— B3 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P--Q4 
B— B4(o) 
P— K3 
KKt— B3 

6P— K3 

6B— Q2 

7Q— Kt3(c) 

8 QB— B sq. 

9BxP 
lOB— K2 
llQxQ(cO 

P— B3 (b) 
B-Q3 
Q— B2 
PxP 
QKt— Q2 
Q— Kt3 
PxQ 

WEISS GAIEES. 

79 

12 P— QR3 

13 0— O 

14 KBr— Q sq. 
ISKtxP 

16 B— K sq. 

P— K4 
0—0 
PxP 
B— Kt3 
B— QB4 

17 Kt-KB3 KB— Q sq. 

18B— Q3 

The game was here abandoned as 
drawn. 

{a) Not a good development for this Bishop, which may be wanted on the Q side. 
(b) As it is mostly Black's best plan to advance P — QB4 sooner or later in this 

opening, the move in the text most cause some loss of time, 
(e) R — QB sq. first seems stronger, for in some consequent situations it may be 

quite good play to advance P — B5, and the QKtP should be kept available for 

pushing immediately to Kt4 in support of the array of Pawns. 
{(I) Both parties being favorites for high prizes, they seem to be anxious not to 

run the slightest risk and to secure a draw against each other. This is, no 

doubt, legitimate, but it nevertheless forms one of the drawbacks that renders 

tournament play an unsatisfactory test of strength. 
{€) As both sides evidently aim at a draw, it would have been waste of time to go 

on in such an equal position. 

Game No. 58. 

Played in the second round, May 8th. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

A. Bam. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt^BS 
Kt— B3 

3B— Kt5 

4 0— 0 

KtxP 

5P Q4 

B— K2 

6Q K« 

Kt^-QS 

7BxKt 

' ttPxB 

8PxP 

Kt— Kt2 

9Kt— B3 

0-0 

10Kt-Q4 

Kt— B4 

11 K— K sq. 

12 B— K3 
13QE^Kt8q.(6) 
14 Kt— K4 
15BxKt 

16 Kt— B5 
17BxB 
18Q— Q3 
19 Q— QB3 
20R— K3 
21B— R7 
22QxP 
23 P— KB3 

Ki^K3 (a) 
R— Kt sq. 
P— QR3 
KtxKt 
P— Q4 
BxKt(c) 
R— Ksq. 
Q— Kt4 
B— B4 
B— Kt3 
R— R sq. (d) 
B— K5 (e) 
BxQBP 

(a) The game has been normally developed on both aides, and is now quite equal. 

(b) Better than forming a hole by P— QKtS, and also superior to 18 Ktx Kt, 13 
BPxKt; 14BxP, 14RxP; 15 B— Q4, 15R^Kt5, etc. 

(c) With this exchange the same drifts into a draw on account of the Bishops 
being of opposite colors, tnough some complications arise later on. 

(d) A difBcult move to hit at, and, we believe, the only one to save the game. 

(«) Also finely plajred, and by far superior to B x P at once, for, by compelling the 
advance of White's KBP, White's Book will be left unprotected if Bishops are 
exchanged, and thus Black will gain time. 

80 

WEISS GAMES. 

24QB— Ksq.(/) B— B4 
25 B— B5 Q— Q sq. 

26R--Q8q. Q— Q2 

27QxQ 
28P— QB3 

Drawu. 

BxQ(sr) 
P— <JB3 

(/)If 24QxB, 24BxB; 25 QR^-K sq., 25 Q— K2, followed soon by P- 

w-ith the better game. 
iff) The game is now easily drawn. 

-QB4, 

Game No. 59. 

Played in the second ronnd, May 17tb. 

VIENNA OPiaJING. 

WTUte 
A. Bom. 

IP— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

3P— KB4 

4PxKP 

6Q— KB3(o) 

6BPxKt(6) 

7 B— Kt 5 ch. (d) Ki^QBS 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
KK<^B3 
P— Q4 
KtxP 

EtxEt 
P— QB4(c) 

Position after Black's 0th move 

PxP 

Black— A. Bum. 

8P— QB4 
9Kt-K2 
lOBxKtch. 
UQxPch. 
12Q— Q5 
13 Q— B6 ch 
14Q— Q5 

B— K3 
PxP(e) 
PxB 
B-Q2 
B— K3 
B— Q2 
B— K3 
Drawn. 

(/) 

White— M. Weiss. 

(a) An ingenious move introduced by Mr. Upschutz in this tournament. 

(6) We prefer 6 KtPxP, with the following probable continuation:. 6. . .B — K3 
(or6...P— QB4; 7 Q— Kt8, etc.); 7 P— Q4, 7 0-0; 8 B— Q3, 8 P— QB4; 9 
PxP, 9 B X P; 10 Q— Kt 3, 10 K— R sq. ; 11 Kt— B3, with a strong attack. 

(c) Not a good move. Black is bound here to provide by B — K2 against the 
adverse strong answer Q — Kt 3. 

(d) WTiich White would have done much better to adopt, for the line of play here 
initiated leads to a dry draw. 

{e) Mr. Weiss generally secures a draw at the first opportunity, more especially 
against a strong opponent; but it should bo stated that it re<^uired good 
position judgment at this point to arrive at his decision, as the position of the 
Black Pawns on the Q side look unfavorable for the ending. See diagram. 

(/) White is wise in turn to be satisfied with a draw. Black's Pawns on the Q 
side, though one is isolated and two are doubled, can be well defended, and his 
two Bishops may be well brought into action toward the end, whereas the 

WEI88 GAMES. 

81 

isolated White KP will be troublesome to the other side, and his QBP may 
aLso in some contingencies become the object of the hostile attack that might 
compel its advance and leave a disagreeable hole at White's QS. 

Game No. 60. 

Played iu the first loond, April 4th. 

IREEGULAK OPENING. 

White 

M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2P— Q4 

3PxP(o) 
4B— Q3 
5 P— QB3 
6B— KB4 
7BxB 
8Kt— B3 
9 0— O 

10 R— K sq. 

11 QKt— Q2 

12 B— B sq. 

13 P— QKt 4 
14Kt— Kt3 
15 P— Kt 5 
16PxP 
ITKtxP 
IBKtxB 
19P— Kt3 
20Q— Q4 

Black 

E. Delmar. 

P— QB3 
P-Q4 
PxP 
QK1^B3 
P— K3 
B— Q3 
QxB 
KKt— K2 
Ki^Kt3 
B— Q2 

Ktr-B5 

0—0—0(6) 
P— B3 
P— K4 (c) 
Ki^K2 
PxP 

QR— KB sq. 
QxKt 

Kt(B5)— Kt3 
K-^Ktsq. 

21 Kt^B5 
22B— Kt2 
23 P— KE4 
24Kt— K6 
25B— B3 
26KtxP 
27QxQ 
28RxKt 
29K— Kt2 

30 QR— K sq. 

31 QR— K2 

32 Kt— K6 
33KxKt 
34R— K3 
35KxP 
36P— R4 
37R— Kt7 
38 Kt— B6 
39PxR 
40RxPch. 
41 R— QB7 
42P— Kt6 

t- 

!— B sq. 
^•— KR4 
R— Qsq. 
R— Q3 
Q— B6 
KtxP(d) 
PxQ 

Kt--B6 ch. 
Kt— Kt4 

Br-Q7 

R— Q6 
KtxB 
P— R5 
PxPdisch. 
R-Q7 

R — Kt sq, ch. 
R— Ksq. 
RxR 
R— QB7 
K— Rsq. 
P— R3 
Resigns. 

(a) We consider QKt^BS better. 

(6) He is more liable to a strong attack on this wing than on the other. 

(e^ An error that costs a Pawn. 

(<f) Another worse blunder, costing a clear piece, but the game was lost ai^how, 
as White was two Pawns ahead already, and if 26. . .Q x KtP; 37 R x Kt, 27 
Et X R; 28 Kt — B5, and wins a piece. The game ceases to be of much interest 
after this and requires no further comment. 

82 

WEISS GAMES. 

Game No. 61. 

Played in the second round, May 7th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

Whit^ 

E. Delmar. 

IP— KB4 
2 KKt-B3 
3P— K3 
4P— QKt3 
5B— Kt2 
6 B— Q3 (o) 
7P-QE4(ft) 
8 0— O 
9Kt— K5 
lOB— K2 

11 P— B3 (c) 

12 Klr-B3 

13 P— Q4 
14B— Q3 

15 QKt— Q2 

16 Q— K2 

17 K1^K5 
ISBPxKt 

19 Kt— B3 

20 QBr-Q sq. 
21P— Kt3 
22K— B2(9) 

23 E^KKt sq. 

24 Kt— K sq. 
25Kt— Kt2 
26KPxP 
27 K— K sq. 
28B— Kt5 
2911— Q3 
30BxB 

31 B^B sq. 

32 Kt— B4 ill) 

Black 

M. Wei&s. 

P-Q4 
KKt— B3 
P— B4 
P— K3 
B— K2 
P— QR3 
Kt-B3 
0—0 

Kt— QKt 5(c) 
Kt— Q2 (d) 
Kt— QB3 
P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
R— Bsq. 
P— B4 
P-QR4 
QKtxKt 
R— KB2 
Kt— B sq. 
P-Kt3{/) 
R— Kt2 
P— KKt4 
Q— Ksq. 

Klr-Kt3 

PxP 
P— Kt6 
B— Kt4 
Q— K2 
B— QB3 
RxB 
E^KB2 
BxKt 

33PxB 
34K— Kt3 
35 Q— Kt 5 
36Br-B2 
37R— Q3 
38 K— B sq. 
39B^K3 
40Q— Q3 

41 R— Kt 2 

42 R— KB2 

43P-R3 0') 
44PxP 

45 Br^Kt3 

46 Q— Q2 

47 K— K2 
48K— Q3 
49R(B2)— Kt2 
50K— B2 

51 R— Kt sq. 
52RxR 
53R— Kt2 

54 B— B sq. 

55 Q— K2 

56 Q— B3 
57BxP(m) 
58RxPch. 
59Q— Kt4 
60 K— Kt sq. 
61R-Kt2 
62 K— R2 (o) 
63K— Kt2 
64KxKt 

65 K— Q2 

66 K— K3 

67 Resigns, (q) 

Kt— R5 
R~Kt2 
Q-QB2 
P— R4 (0 
Kt— B6 ch. 
K— R2 
R— Ktsq. 
R— QBsq. 
Kt— R5 
Kt— Kt 3 
K— Kt2 
RPxP 
R— KRsq. 
Q— K2 
R— R8 
Q-R5 
R— KB8 (k) 
KtxBP(0 
RxR 
Kt— R6 
R— B2 
P— B5 
P— Kt6 
R^KB2 
KtxB 
K— B sq. 
Q— R7 ch. 
Kt— K7(«) 
Q— R8 ch. 
KtxPch. 
Q— Kt8ch. 
R— QB2 ch. 
Q— Kt 7 ch. 
R— B6ch. 

ip) 

(a) An early attempt at a K side attack that cannot be commended. The Bishop 
blocks the QP, and consequently also restricts the action of the QKt. 

(b) Necessary in pursuance of his plan, as otherwise Black would advance 
P — QKt 4 and P — QB5. His Q side becomes now still more weakened, but he 
could not play P — QB4, as Black would answer PxP, followed by P — QKt 4, 
with a strong majority of Pawns on the Q side. 

(c) An excellent answer. 

WEISS' GAME& 83 

((f) Here v^e certainly would have preferred P — Q5. Whether or not White 

exchanged Pawns, his position became then still more inferior, and especially 

in the latter case Black could first exchange Pawns, and he had then the option 

of pursuing the attack either by exchanging Queens or by KKt — Q4. 
(e) Still more blocking his game on the Q side, but it was unavoidable now ; and 

this is only a natural con»eauence of his weak disposition of forces on the 6th 

and 7th moves. The Knignt had to be driven back, and he has no more the 

QKP at his disposal for the purpose. 
(/) P — KKt 4 was quite safe and gained a clear move, or even two, for the KR, 

which he afterward plays to KKt 2, was even stronger there for the purpose of 

pressing his attack, than at his present post. 
(g) Probably with some vague idea of getting his King into safety on the other 

side, and then to institute his own attack on the K wing. But we see neither 

use nor necessity for this plan. 
(h) Weak for more than one reason. The point at KB4 was likely to become his 

stronghold and the adversary's KBP could not advance for some time. His 

own Pawn which is now placed on that square becomes a source of trouble 

subsequently, and Black obtains a good working majority of Pawns on the K 

side. Q— Q^sq., with the view of opposing B — B sq., was by far superior. 
(0 This closes the KR file for his Rook, and by right play of the opponent a draw 

was likely to result, whereas if he did not advance that Pawn, he had good 

prospects of breaking through by R — Kt8 and R — R8. 
(J) The plan pursued on this and the next move is a very injudicious one. The 

opening of the KR file is ruinous to his position. 
(A;) Black's manoeuvring against the weakest points on the adverse K side has 

been executed with remarkable foresight and consistency, and he has it now 

all his own way. 
(I) Good enough, no doubt, but still stronger and preparing a more speedy finish 

wasQ— R8. 
(m) A desperate effort, but his only chance of prolonging the fight, in view of the 

threatened Kt— Kt4. 
(n) The termination that follows is a skilful piece of strategy, 
(o) Best, evidently. If K— Kt2, Black mates in two moves, and if 62 K— B2, 62 

Q— B8 ch. ; 68 K— Q3, 63 Kt— B5 ch., and wins the Queen. 
(p) Fine play that forces the mate absolutely. 
(q) 67. . .Q— B8 ch. ; 68 R— Q2, 68 Q x R mates him neatly. 

Game No. 62. 

Played in the first round, March 27th. 

DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. 
White Black 3 Kt— B3 Kt— B3 

r, TT T^ .^ . Ttr w * B— Kt5 B— Kt5 

G. H. D. Gossip. M. Weiss, g q_q ^^^^ ^^^ 

IP— K4 P— K4 6QPxB P— Q3 

2QK1^B3 QKt— B3 7 Q— K2 P— KB3(6) 

(a) We do not approve, as usual, of this early exchange of a Bishop for a Knight. 
(6) Nor would we recommend this advance of a wing Pa¥m, which leaves a mark 
for the hostile attack in case Black has to 0—0 on that wing. 

84 WEIBS' GAMES. x 

\ 

8BxKtch.(c) PxB 20 Q— B2 B— K3 

9P— KB3 0—0 21Kt— Kt3 P— KB3 

lOP— B4 P— B4 22K— Kt2 K— B2 

11K1^R2 Q— K2 23Q— Q2 P— R4 

12 P— KKt4(d) P— Kt 4 (e) 24 P— R4 Q— Q2 

13P— KR4(/) Kt— R2 25 Q— B2 Q— K sq. 

14P— R5(</) B— K3 26Q— Q2 K— Kt2 

15 B— K3 KB— Q sq. 27 Q— B2 K— B2 

16P— KB3 Kt— KBsq. 28 Q— Q2 B— Q2 

17 P— QKt 3 B— Q2 (h) 29 B x Kt (i) BP x B 

18KE— Qsq. Kt— K3 30 Q— Q3 B— K3 

19 Kt — B sq. Kt — Q5 Given up as drawn, {j ) 

(c) We believe that White had a slight advantage, which is now given away again. 
Kt — K sq. or — Q2, with the view of supporting the KP by P— KB3 and with 
the option of fomiing an attack on either side, strongly assisteil by the two 
Bishops, was a far more promising plan than this exchange. 

(cZ)This endangers his own K side without much prospect of success for his 
attack against the opponent. 

(e) A feeble answer. Kt — R2 was far better, and he could then remove his R — K 
sq., followed by Kt — B sq. and afterward Kt — Kt3, which would have com- 
manded with good effect the weak spots formed in the adverse camp. 

(/) A very good answer that gives White the initiative. 

ig) But he immediately neutralizes his advantage quite unnecessarily. K — Kt 2, 
. followed by R — KR sq., was the right play. 

(h) He obtains no advantage from the plan which he pui*sues, whereas, we believe, 
he had the better prospects of making an impression by manoeuvring his 
Knight via Q2 to QKt 3 and then to prepare breaking through at Q4 by 
P— QB8. 

(t) The position was quite equal for some time, but this exchange gives Black the 
stronger centre. 

(J) A creditable performance for White, but we think that Black would have 
been justified in going on with an attempt to win. QR — QKtsq., for the 
purpose of stopping the advance of P — QB8, might have been a good prepara- 
tion. He could afterward remove K — Kt 2, and we believe he had good prospects 
of forming an attack in the Q centre by P — QB3 and P — Q4, his strong point 
being that all the White Pawns were fixed on White squares, while he had 
retained a Bishop of the same color. 

Game No. 63. 

Played in the second round, April 20tli. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

WhUe Bhck 3B-Kt5 P-QB3 

4 B— B4 Ki— B3 

M. Weiss. G. H. D. Gossip. g q q Kt X P 

IP— K4 P— K4 6P— Q4 P— QKt4 

2KKt-B3 QKt-B3 7B— Kt3 P— Q4 

WEIBS OAKE8. 

86 

8PxP 

9P— B3 
10 QKt— Q2 
IIB— B2 
12Kl^Kt3(c) 
13 KKt— Q4 
UPxKt 
15 P— B3 
16BxKt(e) 
17P— B4 
ISQxB 

B— K3 
KB— QB4(a) 
0—0 

B— KB4(6) 
B— Kt3 
KtxKt(d) 
B— KKt3 
Kt— Kt4 
QxB 
BxB 
Q-K2 

19 QB^K sq. (/) Q-Kt 5 (g) 

- ~ - P-QB4(/0 

20 Q— Q3 
21PxP 
22 K— R sq. 
23QxP 
24Q— Kt7 
25 R-K4 (k) 
26QxRcli. 
27RxQ 

BxPch. 

B— R2(i) 

QR-Qsq.O') 
R— QRsq. 
KR— Ktsq. (0 
RxQ 

And after a few more moves Black 
resigned. 

(a) This Bishop is better placed at K2 in this form of opening. 

(6) Much better was Ktx Kt, followed by Kt— K2 and KB— QKt 3, after which he 
could well assert his majority of Pawns on the Q side. 

(c) A powerful move that with the following one creates a weakness on the 
adverse Q side. 

(d) He had hardly anything better. If 12 B— Q2, 12 P— B8; 18 Kt— Kt4, 13 K— 
B sq. followed by Q — K2 and P — KB4, with a vehement attack. 

(e) We do not approve of this exchange, and would have preferred BxB, followed 
by P — QB4, and White had then the double option of breaking in on the QR 
file as well as of pursuing the attack on the QB file after playing B — K3. 

(/) An ill-considered move that greatly imperilled his game. , Q — B3, followed by 
QR — QB sq. in order to keep command of the QB file by Kt — B5, if necessary, 
was the correct play. 

(g) An excellent move which greatly amends his position, and in fact gave him a 
little the better game if properly followed up. 

(A) But Black spoils his advantage immediately with a bad blunder which loses a 
• Pawn, whereas 19. . .P — QR4, threatening P— QR5, would have maintained at 

least an even game, for if 20 P— QR8, 20 Q— B6; 21 KR— Q sq., 21 P— R.5; 22 

Kt— B sq., 22 QB— Q sq., etc. 

(t) A retreat of the Bishop was necessary, as the loss of a piece was threatened by 
P— QR8, but B— Kt 8 was much better. 

U) 'The final fatal error, which loses a clear piece. KR — Q sq., if anything, might 
have prolonged the struggle. 

(k) Vigorously winding up with a neat catch qf a piece at least. 

(I) White facilitates the matter for the opponent still more. He need only have 
lost the Bishop by 26. . .QR^Ktsq.; 26 QxR, 26 QxR; 27 QxB, but, of 
course, his game was lost. 

86 

WEISS OA1CE& 

Game No. 64. 

Played in the first round, April 2d. 

QUEEN'S FIANCHETTO. 

White 
M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 

2P-Q4 

3B— Q3 

4P— KB4(a) 

6 KK<^B3 

6P— B3 

7P— K5(c) 

80—0 

9Kt— R3 
10K<^B4 
UP— KKt3(d) 
12 Kt^KS 
13BxKt 
UQ— Kt3(e) 
15QR— Qsq. 

16 B— K2 (/) 

17 P— B4 
18R— B2 
19B— KBsq. 
20 B— Kt2 
21PxP(A) 
22R— K2 

23 Kt— Q2 
24KxB 
25 Kt— B3 (t) 
26QxP 
27Q— Kt3 
28B— B2 
29 R— B2 
30R(Qsq.)— QB 

I. Gunsberg. 

P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— Kt3 
B— Kt2 
P-K3 
P— KB4 (b) 
Kt— K2 
O— O 
QKt— B3 
Kt— Q4 
Q— K sq. 
KtxKt 
Kt— K2 
K— Esq. 
P— KR3 
R— KKt sq. 
Q-B2 

B-KB sq. ig) 
B— Kt2 
P— Q3 
PxP 
B— K5 
BxB 
P-Q4 
PxP 

QR— QBsq. 
Kt— Q4 
R— B3 
Q— QKt2 

(Kt sq.)- 
QBsq. 

31P— KR4(/) 
32 P— R3 
33Q— Q3 
34RxR 
35RxR 

36 K— R2 

37 B— K sq. 
38K— R3 
39 Q— K2 
40K— Kt2 

41 Q— Q3 

42 K— B sq. 
43BPxP 
44K— K2 
45P— Kt3 

46 K— Q sq. 

47 K— B2 
48B— Q2 
49QxQ 
50 Kt— K5 
51KtxP 
52B— K3 

53 K— B3 

54 P— QKt 4 
55PxP 
56Kt— B8ch. 
57Kt— Q7 

58 Kt— B5 

59 KtxKt 
60KxP 
61B— Kt5 

62 B— Q2 

63 B— K sq. 

Given up 

P— QR4 
B— Bsq. 
B— Q3 
RxR 
QxR 
Kt— B3 
Kt— Kt 5 ch. 
K— R2 
K— Kt2 
K— B2 
Q— Q4 
P— K4 (k) 
BxP(0 
B— B3 
K— K2 
K— Q3 
Q— K5 
K<^B7 (to) 
PxQ 
P— R4(n) 
Kt— Q6 
K— Q4 
P— Kt4 
PxPch. 
K— K3 
K— B4 
B— K2 
B— Q3 (o) 
PxKt 
BxKKtP 
B— Q3 
B— K2 

as drawn, {p ) 

(a) It is often important in this form of opening to support the K centre by 

P — KB8, and the BP ought, therefore, to be retained. 
tb) Premature. Kt— K2 first would make this advance much safer. 
{(:) It would have been also good plav to exchange the Pawns and keep open the 

K(|uare at K5 for the entrance of the KKt. White had then better prospects of 

blocking tlie adverse QB by P — QB4 and P — Q5 after duly protecting the Q 

centre Pawn by B — K3. 

WEISS' GAMES. 87 

{fl) We would have rather retreated the Kt — K sq. with the same object of 
protecting the BP for the purpose of playing afterward Kt — K3. The move 
adopted opens a dangerous diagonal for the adverse QB, though this piece is 
covered for the present. 

(e) We prefer Q— K2 or Q— B2. 

(f) R — B2, with the view of retreating B — KB sq., would have saved time. 
{^) Useless. He has to abandon his plan immediately. 

(ft) This exchange of Pawns is injudicious, and at any rate could have been well 
postponed after the preliminary 21 R — K2 or KR--Q2, to which Black could 
not answer 21... PxP, on account of 22 KtxP, 22BxKt; 28BxB, 28QR— 
Kt sq. ; 24 BP X B, 24 K x B; 25 B x RP, and should win. 

(/) Much better was P — B5, which established the majority of Pawns on the Q 
side. 

(J ) Not as good as P — KR3. The hole at KKt 4 becomes troublesome later on. 
Obviously, he had to provide safe quarters for his Kins, as he was liable to a 
discovered check if he removed his Knight, since Black could easily open the 
diagonal for his Queen by exchanging Rooks. 

(A'> Well played. He gets rid of the weak KP and clears entrance for his King in 
the aaverse centre, should he succeed in exchanging Queens. 

(/) We think that Ktx P, which forced the exchange of Knights, was still more 
favorable to his winning prospects. White was afterward bound to protect 
the QP by B — B2, and Black thus gained time for P — QR5, which still more 
w€sakened White's Q side. 

(/a) The greater part of this game has been played by Black carefully and with 
very good judgment. He had now much the better position for the ending if 
he had only played 48. . .K— Q4 first, and then after 49 B— B3, 49 B— K2; 50 
P— QR4, 50 B— Q3, White's KKtP could no more be protected ; for if 61 B— 
K sq., 51 Kt— K6 ch.; 52 K— Q2, 52B— Kt5ch.; 58 K— K2, 53 Kt— B7 disch. ; 
54 QxQ ch., 54 PxQ; 55 BxB, 55 PxKtch., and wins. 

(n) His beat course now. If 50. . .B x Kt; 51 P x B ch., 51 K x P; 52 B— K8, and 
wins both Pawns on the Q wing. 

(o) Finely played and securing a draw, albeit he remains a Pawn behind. 

ip)A remarkable position. White cannot win with his extra Pawn, as the 
entrance of his King into the adverse game is blocked in all directions, and if 
he advance the QP, the adverse King will easily catch that Pawn. 

Game No. 65. 

Played in the second round, April 27th. 
PETROFPS DEFENCK 

White Black 

L Gunsberg. M. Weiss. 

1 P— K4 P— K4 

2 KK1^B3 KKt— B3 

3 KtxP 

P 03 

4 Kl^KBS 

KtxP 

5P— Q4 

P-Q4 

6B— Q3 

QKt B3 

7 0 — 0 

B— K2 

88 

WEISS GAMES. 

8 B— K sq. (a) 

9P— B3 
10 QKt^-Q2 (b) 
IIQ— Kt3 
12QxKtP 

13 Q— Kt 3 

14 Q— B2 
15P— QKt3(rf) 

16 B— K2 

17 B— B sq. 
18P— Kt3(e) 
19KxB 
20KtxKt(/) 
21Kt— B4 
22PxB 
23K— Kt2(/i) 
24B— K3 

25 K— B2 (t) 

26 K— Kt sq. 

27 K— B sq. 

28 Q— Q sq. 

B— KKt5 

P— B4 

0—0 

K— R sq. (c) 

B^B3 

B— Kt sq. 

E^KKt3 

B— Q3 

B— KR6 

Q— B3 

BxB 

R— KBsq. 

BPxKt 

RxP(gr) 

BxP 

BxKt 

Q— B6 ch. 

B— K2 

R^B3 

Q-Kt5 0*) 
B^B6 

Position after Black's 21st move 

RxP 

Black— M. Weiss. 

\^Tiite — I. Ounsberg. 

29 QR— B sq. Q— R6 ch. 

30 Resigns, {k) 

(a) Certainly better than 8 P — B4, which is recommended by authorities and 

usually adopted by practitioners. 
(6) There was no necessity for this precaution, and Q — Kt 8 at once was stronger. 

(c) The sacrifice of the Pawn, though actually successful, is not sound, we l)elieve, 
11...P— QKt8 was the correct play, for if then 13 BxKt, 12 BPxB, and 
White dare not capture the KP on account of the rejoinder Kt — R4. 

(d) Useless. B — K2, followed by Kt — B sq., would have been the play to release 
himself, with a Pawn ahead. 

(e) Compromising. He could still obtain a good mme by 18 R — K8, for if 18. . . 
P— B6; 19 KtxKt, 19 PxKt; 20 RxP, 20 QB— KB4; 21 B— Q3, and should 
Black take the Rook, White will recover the exchange, with two Pawns ahead. 

(/) This is a gross error of judgment in view of the powerful pieces now directed 
against his King on the open KB file. 

(g) A most beautiful masterstroke. See diagram. 

(7t) Clearly, if Kt — Kt 2, Black would answer BxP, with an easily won game. 

(0 If 26 K— Ktsq., 26 R— B8 is also quite decisive. 

(J) To all appearance a very quiet move, but in reality a powerful one, which 
denotes the highest order of genius. It will be seen that it prepares the 
irresistible entrance of the Rook. 

(A) The termination is wonderfully fine and leaves White no resource. If 80 K — 
K3, 80 R x B ch. , and mates next move by Q— Kt 7. And if 80 K— Kt sq. , 80 
B — Q8 (threatening mate in five moves by B— B7 ch., followed by B — Kt 6 and 
then Q— R7 ch. and R x P ch., etc.); 81 Q— B2, 81 B^B8, and wins. 

WEISS GAMES. 

89 

Game No. 66. 

Played in the first round, April 10th. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

White 
M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 

2KKt— B3 

3P— Q4 

4B— B4 

5 0— 0(a) 

6PxP 

7Kt— B3 

8Q— K2 

9 B— KKt 5 (6) 
10 QR— Q sq. 
IIB— Q3 
12B— KR4 

13 Kt— Kt sq. 

14 QKt^-Q2 

15 B— Kt 3 
16KB— QB4 
17Q— Q3 
ISKtxKt 
19Q— K3 
20Ii—Q3(d) 
21QxB . 
22RxR 
23B— K2 
24Q— Kt3 
25 B^Q sq. 

Black 
J. M. Hanham. 

P— K4 
P-Q3 
Kt^2 
P— QB3 
B— K2 
PxP 
KKt^B3 
0—0 
Q-B2 
P— QKt4 
Kt— B4 
P— Kt6 
B— KKt5 
K<^K3 
K<^Q2 
K1^U5 
KtxKtch. 
QR— Qsq. 
P— KR3 (c) 
BxKt 
Kt— Kt3 
BxR 
B— B3 
P-QE4 
P— QB4 

26 P— QB3 

27 P— KB3 
28RxRch. 

29 Q— B2 

30 B— K sq. 

31 K— B sq. 
32P— QKt3 
33QxP 
34QxQ(e) 

35 PxP 

36 B— Kt 3 

37 KB— QB4 

38 K— K2 

39 K— Q3 
40B— Q5 
41B— QKt3 

42 K— B4 

43 B— QB2 
44B— KB2 
45 B— R4 ch. 
46B— R7(/) 
47B— KtS 
48P— Kt3 
49P— KR3 
50PxP 
51B— KB 
52B— B7 

53 B— R7 (A) 

R— Qsq. 
P— B5 
BxR 
B— K2 
Q— B4 ch, 
Q— Kt4 
PxP 
Q— R5 
KtxQ 
BxP 
B— Q3 
K— B sq. 
K— K2 
P— KB3 
B— Kt5 
Kt— B4 ch. 
K-Q3 
K— B3 
Kt— K3 
K-Q3 
Kt— B2 
P— R4 
P— Kt4 
P-R5 (3) 
PxP . 
B— R6 
B— KtS 
B— K8 

(a) Not as good as Kt — Et 5, played by Mr. Delmar against the same opponent at 

this stage. 
(6) As a general rule it is better to post this B — K3 where he is in communication 

with both wings. 

(c) Time is wasted here that might have been better used by K — Bsq. and P — B3. 

(d) B — Q2 seems better, in order not to block the KB. 

(e) Both parties hare played the middle game with great care and caution, and a 
draw ought to result by rights after the exchange of Queens, though White has 
a slight advantage with his two Bishops. 

(/) White is pla3ring with great ingenuity in order to confine Black's Kin^ or 
drive him baick and nu^e room for his own, but by its nature the position 
ought to have been a drawn one, nevertheless. 

07) At last Black unsuspectingly gets himself into difficulties. B — K8 was the 
right move, which would have kept the game even. 

(h) White presses hard on the opponent. He threatens B — KB2. 

90 

64 B— B5 ch, K— Q2 (i) 

55 KB— KKt 6 0) 

Kt— R3 (k) 

56 B— B5 ch. ~ " 
57B— Kt6ch. 

58 K— Kt 5 

59 B— B7 (0 

K— Q sq 
K— K2 

Kt— Kt 8q. 

Ktr-Q2 

WEISS' GAMES. 

eOBxKt 

KxB 

eiBxRP 

B Kt6 

) 62B— Kt6 

K— Q3 

63P— R4 

B— K8 

64P— R5 

BxP 

I. 66BxB 

P— B4 

66 B— K sq. 

B«Bigns. 

(0 Best, or White wins by B— K7. 

U) White's manoeuvring is a splendid specimen of end play with two Bishops. 

{k) This is fatal. He could still hold out bv o5 . . . B— Kt 6; 56 B— B5 ch., 56 K- 

B3; 57 B— K7, 57 Kt— K sq., and if 58"^B— KKt6, 58 K— Q2, etc. 
(I) Which leaves no chance of resistance. 

Game No. 67. 

Played in the second round, May 10th. 

STONEWALL OPENING. 

White 
J. M. Hanham 

IP— Q4 
2P— KB4(a) 
3P— K3 

4 KK1^B3 

5 P— QB3 

6 B— K2 (c) 

7 QKt-Q2 
80—0 
9KtxKt 

10B^B2 
llKt— Q2 
12P— KKt3(ri) 

13 K^-B sq. 

14 P— B5 

15 B— Kt 5 
16BxKt 
17PxKP 
18Q— Kt4 

19 P— K4 (/) 

20 B— K3 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P-Q4 
B— B4 ih) 
P— K3 
KKt^B3 
B— K2 
Kt— K5 
0-0 
P— QB4 
•BxKt 
Kt-B3 
B— Kt3 
P— B3 (e) 
P— K4 
B— B2 
Q— Kt3 
PxB 
PxP 
B— B3 
P— B5 
P— Q5 

21PxP(«/) 
22B— B4 
23 R— K sq, 
24P— KR4 

25 PxP 

26 B— K3 

27 B— B sq. 
28KR— K2 

29 B— Kt 5 

30 Q— B4 

31 Kt— K3 (0 
32KtxB 
33BxB 
34BxPch. 
35RxE 
36Q— KtSch. 

37 P— B6 cL 

38 P— R5 ch. 

39 P— Kt4 ch. 

40 Q— Kt sq. ch. 

41 Q— KB sq. 

42 Resigns. 

PxP 

KR— Ksq. 

Q-B4 

P— B6 

PxP 

Q-B5 

R— K4 

QR— K sq. 

K— R sq. 

B— Q4 (//) 

QxP 

QxKt 

RxRO') 

K— Kt sq. 

RxR 

KxB 

K— Kt3 

KxRP 

K— Kt3 

P— B7 

P — QB8 queens 

(a) Mr. Ware, of Boston, is the inventor of this opening, which he named as 
quoted above. He won a game therewith against the editor in the Vienna 
Tournament of 1882, but it cannot be recommended on principle, as it leaves 
the KP weak, as well &s a hole at K4. 

WEISS' GAMES. 91 

(6) A good plan of meeting this opening, as it takes double command at once of 
the hole in the hostile camp. 

(c) If 6 B— Q3, 6BxB;7QxB, 7 O— O, followed by P— QB4, and Black obviously 
has the advantage whether WTiite exchange Pawns or not. In the former case 
Black's Bishop will bear heavily against the K side, and in the latter White 
will not be able to advance the KP without at least isolating his QP. 

(d) Quite useless. Kt — B sq. at once was much better. 

(e) Black rightly selects the point where to break in. White's opening has left 
two marks of attack in the centre. 

if) After long and troublesome manoeuvring White has at last succeeded in 
advancing his KP, but much to the detriment of his position in the centre, as 
well as to the disadvantage of his forces in quality, as Black has two Bishops 
against his Knight and Bishop. 

0/) This injudicious exchange exposes his already weak KP additionally to the 
action of the hostile Rooks on the open K file. B — Kt 5 was by far better. 

{7i) It required deep and accurate calculation to make sure of the efficiency of this 
move for winning purposes. 

(i) For not alone what actually occurred had to be provided for, but it would also 
seem that after 31 BxB, 81 PxB; 32 Q— R6, White is likely to draw, but 
Black had the following fine and far-sighted resource at his disposal : 32. . . 
Q— Q5 ch. ; 33 K— R2, 33 R x P; 34 R x R, 34 B x R; 35 R x B (there appears 
to be nothing better), 35 . . . Q x R; 86 Q x BP ch. , 36 K— Kt sq. ; 37 Q— Kt 5 ch. , 
37 K — B2, and Black will soon escape with his King at Q3 via K2, with an 
easily won game. 

(J) 'What now actually follows had, no doubt, also to be clearlv reckoned with by 
Black on the 30th move, and the termination of the game shows how precisely 
and far ahead the calculation of Herr Weiss had been worked out. 

Game No. 68. 

Played in the first round, April 13th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 

M. Judd 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P-Q3 
6 QKt— B3 
6 B— KKt 5 (a) 
7B— K3 

(a) Clearly loss of time. 

(&) The isolation of the KP, which Black has skilfully manoeuvred for, could no 

more be avoided, for if 17 KtxKt, 17 R — K sq., followed by BxKt, has the 

same effect. 

Block 

8Q— K2 

B— K3 

M. Weiss. 

9B— Kt3 
10 P— Q4 

Kt^K2 
PxP 

P— K4 

llKtxP 

BxB 

QKt-B3 

12RPxB 

O-O 

B B4 

13 0—0 

P--Q4 

KKtr-B3 

UPxP 

KKtxP 

P— Q3 

15 KtxKt 

KtxKt 

P— KR3 

16 Kt— B5 

KtxB 

B— Kt3 

17PxKt(6) 

K— R2 

WEI88 GAMES. 

18 K— R sq. (c) 

19 Kfc— Q4 
20Q— QB4 
21K— B3 

22 QBr-KB sq. 

23 P— QKt 4 
24P— B3 

P— KKt3 
Q— K2 {d^ 
P— KB4 
QR— K sq. 
Q-K5 
P— B3 
P— E3 

25P— KKt3(e) 
26 K— Kt sq. 
27RxP(/") 
28RxR 

29 Q— B7 ch. 

30 Resigns. 

P— KKt4 
P— Kt5 
RxR 
BxKt 
B— Kt2 

(c QR — Q sq. first was much better play. 

(r/)Much stronger than 19. . .B x Kt; 20 QR— Q sq., and if 20. . .P-QB4; 2t P— 
B3, etc. 

(p) Wliite has labored for a long time under difficulties in consequence of the 
weakness of his KP, against which the opponent has directed operations with 
well-judged persistency. His game was not easy to defend, though probably 
K — Ktsq., followed by waiting moves with his Queen, might have led to a 
draw, but the move in the. text subjects him at once to a strong attack that 
must cause the loss of a Pawn, at least, within a few moves. 

(/) A blunder which costs a piece. He could still hold out for some time after 27 ^ 
R— B4, 27 Q X P ch. ; 28 K— R sq. 

Game No. 69. 

Played in the second round, May 14th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 

2 KK<^B3 

3 B— Kt6 

4 0—0 
5P-Q4 
6B— R4 
7B— Kt3 
BPxP 

9 P— QB3 
10 Kt— Q4 
llRPxKt 
12B— Kt5 

13 BxKt 

14 P— KB4 

15 K— R sq. 
16QxB 

17 P— QKt 4(e) 

18 Kt— Q2 
19PxP(f/) 

Black 

M. Judd. 

P— K4 

QK1^B3 

Kt— B3 

KtxP 

P— QR3 

P— QKt4 

P-Q4 

Kt— K2 

Kt— B4 

KtxB(a) 

B— K3 (h) 

Q—Q2 

BxB 

B— QB4(c) 

BxKt 

0—0 (d) 

P-KB3(/) 

PxP 

RxRch. 

20 RxR 

21 PxP 
22Kt— Kt3 
23 Q— B5 (/() 

P— QR4 
RxP 
R^Rsq 
P— B3 

Position after White's 27th move. 

P— K6 

Black— M. Judd. 

White— M. Weiss. 

WEISS' GAMES. 93 

24 Kt— Q4 R— QB sq. 32 Br-K2 Q— B5 ch. (m) 

25 K— Kt sq. (/) B— B2 ( / ) 33 KtH-J83 R— KB sq. 
26Br-Rsq. P— R3(A:) 34QxBP QxRP 

27 P— K6 (0 B X P 35 Q X P ch. K— R sq. 

28Rr-R7 Q— Ksq. 36QxKtP Q— R6 ch. 

29Rr-K7 Q— B4 37K— Ktsq. RxKt 

30RxB Q— Q8ch. 38PxR Resigns. 

31 K— B2 Q— Q7 ch. 

(a) It is perhaps better to reserve this exchange and to play P — QB3 first. 

{b) Here we decidedly prefer P — QB3, as the QB is subject to inconvenience when 

the hostile KBP advances, 
(c) Much better was P — QB4, compelling the adverse Knight to retreat or to 

exchange for the Bishop, in which latter case Black could strengthen his centre 

by retaking with the Pawn. 
id) Had Black perceived the importance of White's next move, he would have 

played 16. ..P— QR4, and if 17 P— QKt4, 17 P— R5; 18 P— QKt3, 18 O— O, 

and though his QRP might have been isolated it could be well defended, 

especially as his Bishop is of the same color, and at any rate he would have 

been better off than he is in actual play, where all the Pawns on his Q side are 

paralyzed after White's reply. 
(e) A splendid coup in true modem style. Thei advanced Pawn commands at 

once the two holes at the adverse QB4 and. QR4 and prepares the strong 

entrance of his Knight on the Black squares. 
(/) Black's desperate efforts to effect a break in the centre leave no impression, 

for the adverse Pawn which he succeeds in isolating is strong enough. 
ig) Played with fine judgment and well foreseeing that the Pawn cannot alone be 

well defended, but will form an excellent means of attack after his Knight 

reaches Q4, which cannot be prevented. 
{h) HeiT Weiss draws his advantage out of this position in an admirable manner. 

This was far stronger than the apparently more feasible Kt — B5. 
(i) A quiet caup de repos which makes Black's defence extremely diflScult. His 

obvious object is not to allow the adversary to occupy the open KB file with 

Rook or Queen and then to threaten mate when White's own Rook will be 

engaged with attacking operations on the open QR file. 
U) He might have prolonged the defence by 25. . .P — KR3, whereupon if 26 R — 

R sq., 26 Q— B2; 27 Q— Q6 (or 27 Kt x P, 27 K— R2, etc.), 27. . .B— Kt 5, etc. 
(k) Overlooking a very ingenious manoeuvre which the opponent had in store, but 

he had hai^ly anything good. If, for instance, 26 . . . B — K sq. (or 26 . . . Q — 

Kt5; 27 KtxBP, 27 K— R sq.; 28 Kt— K7, and wins; or if 26. . .B— Kt3; 27 

P— K6, 27 Q— K sq.; 28 R— R6, etc.); 27 P— K6, 27 Q— Q sq. (or 27... 

Q— QB2; 28Kt— Bo, 28R^Ktsq.; 29Kt— K7ch., 29K— Rsq.; 30 R^KB 

sq., and wins in a few moves); 28 R^KB sq., 28 P— R3; 29 Kt— B5, 29 R— 

B2; SOKtxRPch., SOPxKt; 31 Q— B8 ch., 31 K— R2; 32 Rr-B7 ch., 32 

R X R; 33 P X R, and wins. 
(/) A beautiful masterstroke that forces the gain of a piece, after which White's 

victory is easily accomplished. See diagram. 
(m)Of course, if 32. . .R — B sq. ch.; 33 Qx R ch., and wins. 

94 

WEI88 OAKEB. 

Game No. 70. 

Played in the first round, March 30th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2 KKi^B3 
3B— Kt5 
4BxKtch. 
5P— Q4 
60—0 
7Kt— R4 
8QxP 
9P— KB4 

10 KKt— B3 

IIQ— K3 

12 Kt— B3 

13B— Q2 

14 KB— Q sq. 

15 B— K sq. 
16PxP 
ITKtxEt 
18BxR 

19 Q— K8 ch. 
20QxQch, 

Black 

8. Ldpschiitz. 

P— K4 

QK1^B3 

P-Q3 

PxB 

P— KB3 (a) 

Kt— K2 

PxP(6) 

Q-Q2(c) 

Q— Kt5 

P-QB4 

B— Kt2 

Q-Q2 

0—0-0 

Q— B3 

P— Q4(d) 

KtxP 

RxKt 

QxR 

21 K— B2 
22B— Q2 
23 B^K sq. 
24P— B3 
25Kt— K5ch.(/) 
26BxB 
27R-R4 
28RxP 
29 R— R4 
SOP— KE3 
31B^K4 
32P— B4 

33 B— B3 

34 P— QR3 
35PxP 
36P— QR4 

37 R— K6 

38 R— K4 (</) 
39B— Q2 ■ 
40B— B3 
41B— Q2 

Drawn 

B— Q3 
R— Ksq. 
B— K5 
K— Q2 (e) 
PxKt 
PxP 
P— Kt4 
P— Kt5 
R— KB sq. 
P— KR4 
K— B3 
R— QKtsq. 
R— QRsq. 
R— KKt sq. 
PxP 
K— Kt2 
R— Kt4 
R— R4 
R^B4 
R— R4 

game. 

(a) An excellent and novel idea that goes far to strengthen our opinion of the 
defence adopted on the 8d move. Black's centre is thus kept unassailable 
and White's pieces are greatly hampered in any effort of attack. 

(6) This loosens his centre unnecessarily, and at any rate prematurely. The right 
play was 6. . .B— K3; 7 R— K sq., 7 B— B5; and if 8 P— Q5, 8 Kt— K2, with 
a very good game. 

(c) Xot as good as Kt— Kt 8, followed by B— K8 if White answer Kt— B.i. 

(d) Black now relieves his cramped game by a line of play that leads to various 
exchanges, but still keeps a little mannn of advantage on his side for the 
ending on account of his retaining two Bishops against Bishop and Knight. 

(e) Unprepared for White's reply. B — Q4 was now the right play that still kept 
up a slight advantage. 

(/) An ingenious and far-sighted coup which temporarily gives up a Pawn but 
yet secures a draw, and that was all that White could aim at in this position. 

{j/} The game had assumed a drawish aspect for some time and is now decided in 
that way clearly. 

-WEISS GAMES. 

95 

Game No. 71. 

Played in the second round, April 24th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

S. LipschUtz. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4PxKP 
oQ— B3 
GKtPxKt 
7 P— Q4 (a) 
8PxP 
9Q— B2 

10 E— K2 

llKxQ 

12 B^Kt sq. 

13B— K3 

14 Kt— B3 

Block 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
KKt-B3 
P-Q4 
KtxP 
KtxKt 
P— QB4 
PxP 
Q— R5ch. 
B— Kt 5 ch. 
QxQch. (6) 
B— B6 
BxPch. 
BxP 
B— Q3 (c) 

15 B— Kt 5 ch. 

16 KB^Q sq. {d) 
17RxP 
ISBxKt 

19 E^QR5 
20Br-Kt7 
21R(R5)xP(^) 
22B— Q4 
23KtxB 
24Ki^B6 
25R— B7 
26KtxR 
27Kt— Kt5 
28RxRch. 
29Kt— Q6 
30Kt-K4 

Given up 

Kt— B3 
O— 0(e) 
B— K2 (/) 
PxB 
B— K3 
B— B3 
BxP 
BxBch. 
P— QB4 
B— K3 
RxR 
R— Rsq, 
Rr-QB sq. (/t) 
BxR 
B— K3 

drawn, (t) 

(a) A singular error early in the game. In this and kindred positions of this 
opening Q — Kt 8 is the strongest move. 

(6) White was nicely caught to lose two Pawns anyhow, and in such a position 
Black need not have hurried to exchange Queens, and might have well pro- 
ceeded with 10...Q— K5ch.; 11 K— Q sq. (or 11 B— K3, 11 QxBPch,; 13 
K— B3, 12 Q— K.5 ch. ; 13 K— K2, 18 Kt— B8, with a fine attack), 11 . . . B— B6; 
V2 K — Kt sq., 12 Bx P, with a much more easily won game than he obtained 
in actual play. 

(c) The routine post chosen for this Bishop rather thoughtlessly is now unfavor- 
able. It was much better to place him at KB3, or else to retreat to B2. 

(d) White has well utilized the adverse error pointed out in our last comment, and 
he now recovers at least one Pawn. 

( e) For if 16. . .B— K3; 17 P— QB4, etc. 

(/) We do not see what Black was afraid of, and why he does not preserve at 
least the other Pawn by B— B3. 

(g) White has fought an up-hill battle with great ingenuity after his mistake in the 
opening, but we would have preferred here 21 R(Kt7)xRP; for if Black 
exchanged Rooks, then White's QRP became very strong at once, while if 
Black answered 21 . . . QR — Kt sq. , then 22 B — Q4 would also give Wliite much 
the superiority. 

(h) Black plays for no more than a draw, and his judgment is right and his phiy 
for that object very skilful. If he allowed himself to be tempted to advance 
the QBP further. White would, nevertheless, win that Pawn ultimately, with 
a very favorable position for supporting his pa.ssed Pawn with his King. 

(t) We should have liked to have seen a few more moves made on each side in 
this highly instructive position, and we believe White was rather hasty in 
consenting to a draw at once, for it seem.s to us that there is but one somewhat 
difficult line of play to effect that object, viz.: by 30. . .B— B4; 31 K— K3, 31 

96 

WEISS OAICES. 

K— Esq.; 82 P— B3, 88 K— K2; SSKtxP, 33 K— Q8; 84 Kt— K4 ch., and 
now 34 . . . K — K4 will, no doubt, draw ; but if, for instance, 34 . . . B x Kt, which 
is very tempting; 85 KxB, 35 K — B4 (if 85. . .any other move. White plays 
K — Q4, followed by the advance of the QBP, which will soon fix Black's King, 
and then either Black's KKtP or KBP will be obliged to move, for the advance 
of Black's KP can be easily neutralized by pushing on White's RP in reply; 
whereupon White will gain winning entrance on the K side); 86 K — K5, 86 
K— B5; 37 K— tje, 37 K x P; 38 K— K7, 38 P— B4; 39 K— B7, 39 P— Kt8; 40 
K — Kt 7, 40 P — Kt4; 41 K — B6, and wins. There are other variations which 
all lead to the same result mostly by a mere transposition of moves, and the 
main line of play here analyzed seems at any rate to point to the conclusion 
that White was likely to win with his passed Pawn unless Black preserved the 
Bishop and did not exchange it for the Knight ; but even in the latter case the 
draw was not altogether obvious. Black was also likely to lose if he advanced 
P — B5 at any time and allowed White's King entrance at Q4. 

Game No. 72. 

Played in the second round, April 25th. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

White \ 

S. Lipschtttz. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4 0—0 
5P— Q4 
6 Q— K2 
7BxKt 
8PxP 
9Kt— B3 

10 B— B4 (a) 

11 KBr~K sq. 
12B— K3 

13 Q— B4 
14KtxP 

15 Kt— Q3 

16 Kt— K2 

17 QR— Q sq. 
18Q— KKt4(c) 

19 Kt— Kt3 

20 P— QB3 (d) 

21 Kt— B4 (c) 

22 B— B sq. 
23KtxKt 
24QxR 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt— Q3 
KtPxB 
K<^Kt2 
0—0 
Kt— B4 
Kt— K3 
P— B3 
PxP 
B— B3 
K— R sq. 
B— Kt2(ft) 
Q— B sq. 
P-Q3 
P— B4 
Q— Q2 
QR— Ksq. 
B— B sq. 
RxKt 
QxQ 

25RxQ 

26 P— OR3 

27 R— K sq. 
28B— K3 
29 B— Q2 (ff) 
30BxR 

31 K<r-K2 
32P— B4 

33 K— B2 

34 KxB 

35 P— KKt 3 (i) 

36 P— QKt 3 
37B— Q2 

38 B— B4 

39 K— Q3 

40 B-K3 0') 

41 K— B2 

42 K— Kt sq. 
43PxP 
44BxP 

45 K— B2 
46K— Q3 

47 K— K3 

48 K -B2 

49 K— Kt sq. 
50B— B6 

51 K— R sq. 

BxR 
P— Kt3 
R— K sq. 
B— Kt 6 (/) 
RxRch. 
B— Kt4(/0 
B— QB5 
B— KR3 
BxKt 
BxP 
B— B8 
BxP 
P-Q4 
P— B3 
K— Kt sq. 
P— QR3 {k) 
K— B2 
P-Q5 
PxP 
B— Q3 
K— K3 
K— B4 
K— Kt6 
K— R6 
P— KR4 
B— B4 ch. 
B— K6 

WEISS GAMES. 

97 

Position after Black's 52d move 

P— KR5 

Black— M. Weiss. 

■ # ■ ■ 

■ ■ ■ ■ 

>HtH ■!■ 

■ B ■ ■ J 

B B B B 
BSB » B« 

i B B B B 

B B_B B* 

White— S. Ldpschtitz. 

52 B— Q8 

53 B— B7 
54BxP(w) 
55B-Q6 
56B— B7 
57K— Kt2 
58K— Kt3 
59 B— Q6 
60K— R4 
61BxB 
62P— Kt4 
63K— R5 
64PxP 

65 P— B6 
66KxP 

67 P— B7 

68 P— R4 

69 Besigns. 

P-KR5 (0 
PxP 
P— Kt4 
P— Kt5(n) 
K— R5 
K— Kt4 
K— B4 
B-Q7(o) 
B— B5 
KxB 
K— B4 
P— B4(2>) 
P— R4 
K— K3 
P— R5 
K— Q2 
P— R6 

(a) So far all is in the usual style, but B — K3 is here preferable, and, as will be 
seen on the 12th move, White has lost time by the move in the text. 

(6) The Bishop is not well placed here. Q — K sq. was much better and would 
have enabled him to obtain soon the most favorable formation of Pawns 
that is usually aimed at by first-class mastei-s in this opening, namely, by 
advancing P — Q3 and P — QB4. Black's game was then preferable, as he has 
already gained the strategical advantages of two Bishops against Knight 
and Bishop and the majority of Pawns on the Q side. 

(^') The transfer of the attack a^inst th^ adverse K side, which was more than 
sufficiently protected, was ill-judged. Much stronger was 18 Kt — Q4, which 
hampered the adverse development of Pawns. The probable continuation 
was: 18...KtxKt; WBxKt, 19 Q— Q sq.; 20 Kt--QB5, with an excel- 
lent game. 

((I) We believe that P — QKt 3 would have made the Pawns on the Q wing stronger 
for the ending. 

(e) The series of exchanges to which this leads leave White with the slightly 
inferior position. 

(/) Black take;) posseision of the hole which he has skilfully managed to form on 
the hostile Q wing. 

{g) This loses a most valuable Pawn. The right play was P — KB4, and though 
White had a little the inferior game, he could well struggle for a draw. 

(7*) Herr Weiss seizes his opportunity with masterly precision. 

(i) P — K113 would have enabled him to make a better fight for a draw. 

O) White defends himself ingeniously with two Pawns behind, and he forms a 
counter-attack with inferior forces that creates difficulties for the opponent, 
though there are only one piece on each side and a few Pawns on the board. 

{k) Black is equal to the occasion. It was important to advance this Pawn in 
view of the sacrifice of the QP that becomes necessary later on for the purpose 
of releasing the confined Bishop. 

(J) The endine is beautifully played by Herr Weiss. Obviously, the RP cannot be 
taken by the Bishop on account of the reply P— KKt 4, and' it would be equally 
disadvantageous for White to answer P x P, as Black would then play B — KB5 
and win both the Book Pawns easily. See diagram. 

(m) Best For if 54 P X P, 64 B— B7, and wins. 

98 

WEISS GAlfES. 

(n) Black could have shortened the road to victory thus : 55. . .P — R4; SG B— BT, 
56 B— B5; 57 B x B (best ; if 57 B x P, Black wins easily by B x P, followed ty 
the advance of the KtP), 57...PxB; 58K— Ktsq., 58 P— B4; 39 K— B2, 19 
K X P; 60 K— B8, 60 P— R5; 61 P x P, 61 P— B5. and it will be easily Keen tbr.t 
if White advance the KP, Black's QBP will queen first and then win While's 
Queen by Q— KR8 ch., while otherwise the queening of one of the Pawns 
cannot be stopped by White's King. It should, however, also be noticed that 
if a similar plan be adopted by Bla^k without making the important key move 
which we propose, namely, 55... P — R4, the game would end in a<ltaw, as 
White would a!dvance P — Kt 4 after the exchange of Bishops. 

(o) Remarkably fine and accurate. He threatens to drive back the King by B — 
K8 ch. and then to walk over to the other side with his own King uud ietch 
the last Pawn on that wing. 

(p) The culmination of a fine continuation, which undoubte<lly has been well 
prepared in advance. The whole ending is plaj'ed by Herr Weiss with con- 
summate mastery. 

Game No. 73. 

Played in the first round, April 5th. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP PAWN OPENING. 

White 
N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 
2 P— QB3 
3K<^B3 
4KtxP(a) 
5P— Q4 
6KtxP(6) 
7B— K3 
8Kt— Q2 
9Q— B3 

lOB— K2 

IIB— Kt6(c) 

12QxQ 

13 K— Q sq. 

14 B— B4 (d) 
ISKxB 

16 K— Q sq. 

17 E— K sq. 
ISKxB 
19B— Kt3 

20 K— Q sq. 

21 Kl^Kt 3 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 

P-Q4 

PxP 

Q-Q4 

P X P en pass. 

Kt— KB3 

Kt— B3 

B— Q3 

0-0 

B— KB4 

KB— Ksq. 

KtxQ 

P— KB3 

BxB(e) 

B— Ksq. 

BxKt 

ExBch. 

Kt— B5 

KtxPch. 

Kt— K4 

P— KB4 

ch. 

22 BxKt 
23K— Q2 
24P— KB3 

25 K— K2 

26 P— B3 
27Kt— Q4 
28 P— Kt4 
29P— B3 

30 K— K3 

31 Br-KB sq. 

32 K— K2 

33 K— K sq. 
34K— Q2 

35 B— KKt sq. 

36 K— K sq. 

37 K— Q sq. 

38 K— B2 

39 Br-KB sq. 
40K— Q2 

41 B— KKt sq. 

42 K— K sq. 

43 K— B sq. 

44 Besigns. 

BxB 
B— K5 
B— B5 ch. 
B-<J3 
B-Q4 
P— KKt3 
K— B2 
Kt— B5 ch. 
KtxP 
B— B5 ch. 
B— QB5 ch. 
B— Kt 6 ch. 
Kt— B7 
B— B5 ch. 
Kt— Q6 ch. 
P— KB4 
P— B5 
B— Kt6 
Kt— B7 
B— B5 ch. 
Kt— Q6 ch. 
B-K6(/) 

(o)4 Q — R4ch., 4 QKt— B8 would transform the game into a position of the 

WEI88 OAKES. 

99 

Ponziani Opening, which is more favorable for White than the line of play in 

the text. 
(6) White has now a weakness in the centre that later on becomes troublesome. 
(e) The waste of a more here with this Kshop has serious consequences. He was, 

however, already on the defence and his position a little inferior. His best 

plan was 11 QxQ, 11 KtxQ; 12 QKt— KB sq. 
{d) Falling into a cleverly-laid trap. B — Kit was his only move, but of course a 

Pawn was then lost. In view, also, of the relative strength of the players the 

adverse victory was assured. 
(e) Fine play. 
(/) Black's play from the 14th move is a good specimen of clever tactics with two 

minor pieces against the Rook in the ending, but it required no comment, as 

obviously the superiority of force and of play was on his side. At this point 

he wins ea-sily, for wherever the Rook may move, a discovered check of the 

Knight either at B7 or B5 will cause its loss. 

Game No. 74. 

Played in the second round, May 4th. 

PHnJDOR'S DEFENCE. 

White 

M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3P-Q4 
4QxP 
5 B— QKt 5 
6BxKt 
7Kt— B3 
8B— Kt5 
9 0— O— O 
10 KB— K sq. 

Black 

N. MacLeod. 

P— K4 
P-Q3 
PxP 
QKt— B3 
B— Q2 
BxB 
K1^B3 
B— K2 
O— O 
P— QR3 (a) 

11 P— K5 
12QxP 
13Q— Q4 
UPxB 
15BxKt 
16 QxQ 
17Kt— Q5(6) 
18 Kt— K7 ch. 
19KtxP 

20 R— K4 (rf) 

21 Br-R sq. 
22R— KKt4(0 

PxP 
B— Q3 
BxKt 
P— R3 
QxB 
PxQ 
P— KB4 
K— R2 (c) 
BxP 

P— KR4(c) 
B— Q3 
Besigns. 

(a) A ruinous loss of time. 10 . . . Kt — K sq. , as played by HarrwitJ! against Morphy 

in this position, is by far better. 
(6) White's superior development now decides the game rapidly. 

(c) If 18... BxKt; 19RxB, 19KK— Ksq.; 20RxQBP, 80 R— K7; 21 IU-Q6, 
21 BxKBP; 22 QRxP, 22 I^-KB sq.; 28 P— KR4, with a Pawn ahead and 
a fine game. 

(d) A fine move that at least gains a Pawn, with a winning position. 

(«) His best reply was B— Q8, but even then the game could not have been saved. 
(/) Black is neatly caught in a mating position, from which there is no escape. 

518199 

100 

'WEISS OAltES. 

Game No. 75. 

Played in the first round, April 12th. 

ttUY LOPEZ. 

White 

M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— QKt5 
4 0—0 
5P-Q4 
6Q— K2 
7BxKt 
8PxP 
9K<^Q4 

10 QKt— B3 

11 B^K sq. 

12 R-Q sq. (b) 

13 Q— KKt4 

14 K1^B5 

15 B— K3 (rf) 

Black 

D. M. Martinez. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt— Q3 
KtPxB 
Kt^Kt2 
0-0 
Kt— QB4 
E^K sq. (o) 
B— R3(t) 
Q— Bsq. 
P— KKt3 
Kt— K3 (e) 

16 Kt— K4 

ITKtxBch. 

18 Kt— KB6 ch. 

19Q-R4(/) 

20 P— KKt 4 

21KtPxP 

22BxP 

23 P— R6 

24 P— QKt 3 

25 Q X Kt 
26K^Q4 

27 Br— K sq. 

28 R— B4 
29E— Kt4(/..) 
30P— R4 

31 R— Kt 3 
32P— R5 

Q-Q sq. 
RxKt 
K— R sq. 
P— KR4 
P-Q4 
P-Kt4(sr) 
Q— KB sq. 
R— QKt sq. 
KtxB 
R-K3 
B— K7 
B— KB6 
13— K5 
B— Kt3 
R— QKt5 
Q— K2 
RxKt 

33PxB,andwins.(0 

(a) Black does not recover from this weak move. The right play was 11 . . .Kt — 

K8; and if 13 Kt— B5, 12 P— KB8, with a good game. 
(6) An ingenious move, considering that he has lost time with this Rook. 

(c) Much better was 12. . .B— Kt2; for if 18 Q— Kt4, 13 B— KB sq.; 14 Kt— B5, 
14 K— R sq.; 15 B— Kt5, 15 C^B sq.; and should White proceed with 16 Kt 
— R6, Black would answer 16. . .P — Q4, and White dare not captture the BP at 
onoe, and against any other move his attack will aLso soon be broken either by 
Q— (i2 or Kt— K3 or P x Kt, accordingly. 

(d) White is playing with beautiful accuracy and judgment. 

(e) This lets in another powerful piece for the attack, but there was no help for it. 
Obviously, White threatened KtxB ch., followed by BxKt, and if 15...B— B 
sq.; 16 BxKt, 16BxB; 17RxP, which, obviously, Black dare not capture 
on account of the rejoinder Rt — R6 ch. 

(/) Still stronger was 19 B— R6, 19 Kt— Kt2 (there seems to be nothing better, as 

White threatens Q— R4, followed by B— Kt7 ch.); 20 Q— R4. 20 Q— B sq.; 21 

Ktx RP, 21 K X Kt; 22 B— Kt5 disch., and wins. 
ii/) Nothing better. If K— Kt2, White answers B — R6 ch., winning easily. 
(h) Not as precise and short as 29 R (K sq.) x B, 29 P x R; 80 R— Kt 4, which left 

no hope of escape from mate in a few moves, as simply Q — Kt7 ch., followed 

by mate with the Pawn, was threatened. 
(t) Easy enough now, for Black must give up a clear Rook. If 33. . .R — K3; 84 

P— Kt7 ch., 34 K— Ktsq.; 85 P— R7 ch., and wins. 

WEISS QAHES. 

101 

Game No. 76. 

Played in the second round, May 13th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 
D, M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 

2KK^-B3 

3B— B4 

4Kt— B3 

5P— Q3 

6B— K3 

7Q— K2 

8 P— KR3 (a) 

9PxB 
lOB— Q2 
llBxB 
12 O— O-O 
13R^Q2 
14 KBr-Q gq. 
15P— KKt4 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
QKt^B3 
B— B4 
K1^B3 
P-Q3 
B— Kt3 
B— K3 
BxB 
B— R4(i) 
BxKt 
Q— K2 
0—0—0 
Kt— Q2 
KE— Bsq. 
P— KKt3 

16P— QKt4(c) 
17K— Kt2 
18 K— Kt 3 
19KPxP 
20P— QKt5 
21 Kt— Kt5 
22QxP(Kt4) 
23PxQ 
24KtxP 
26 K<r-B6 (e) 
26P— B5 
27PxKt 
28BxP 

29 P— B3 

30 B— Kt 3 
31B^Q3 
32RxR 

fcK3 
-Kt3(d) 
P— B4 
PxP 
PxP 
Q— B4 
QxQ 

KR— Kt sq. 
Kt— K2 
R— Kt3 
RxKt 
RPxP 
R— B6 ch. 
R— KKt sq. 
RxKtP 
RxR 
K— Q2 
Drawn. 

(a) More likely to do harm than good in the opening. B — Kt 8 was better. 

(b) Kt— K2, followed by P— QB8 or Kt— Kt8, was more adapted to give Black 
a good game than this aim at a mere exchange of another piece. 

(c) Rather bold, considering the position of his King. 

(<i)Thia was tempting, but is the source of Black's coming troubles. It was 
absolutely necessary to keep this Knight at Q2 so as to prevent any eventual 
advance of the adverse QBP, which would strike at the root of Black's 
position, while the advance of White's QKtP would do no harm. He should 
have played P — KB4 at once. 

(e) White has excellently taken advantage of the opponent's slight error, pointed 
out in our last note, and he has come out with a Pawn ahead. However, he 
hesitates now and loses the fruit of his fine play, which ought to have secured 
the victory if he had only played here 26 P — B6 at once. Obviously, if Black 
allowed his two Rooks to oe exchanged, White would afterward gain the KP, 
and the latter's two passed Pawns would win without much difficultv. And if 
85 . . . Kt— Q2; 26 P x P, 2« P x P; 27 R x P, with two Pawns ahead,' for Black 
dare not answer 27...RxP on account of the rejoinder RxKt, followed 
ultimately by Kt— B6 ch. 

102 

WKISS QXttEa. 

Game No. 77. 

Hayed in the second round. May 17tb. 
BUY LOPEZ. 

White 
M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3B— Kt6 
4P— 03 
6K1^3 
6BxKtch. 

8KtxP 

90—0 
10 KKt— K2 
llKt-Kt3 
12 R— K sq. 
13P— QKt3 
UB— Kt2 
15P— KR3 

16 Kt— Q5 

17 Kt— K3 

18 P— QB4 (c) 

19 QKt— B5 
20EtxB 
21Q— B3 

22 QB^-Q sq. 

23 P— KKt3 

24 P— KR4 
25Q— Kt4 
26KtxKtP(/) 
27KtxR(*)' 
28 Kt— B6 ch. 
29KtxBdi8ch. 
30Ktx.' 

Black 

D. M. Martinez. 

P-K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
P— Q3 
B— K2 
PxB 
PxP 
B— Q2 
P— QB4(a) 
O— O 
R— Ksq. 
P— KR3 (6) 
B— KB sq. 
Kt— Kt6(c) 
Kt— K4 
P-»-QB3 (rf) 
Kt— Kt3 
Kt-KB6(/0 
BxKt 
Q— KKt4(<7) 
Ki^Kt3 (A) 
E^K3 
QR— Ksq. 
Q-Qsq. 
Kt— K2 (i) 
B-Kt3 
RxQ 

K— R sq. (0 
B— Kt2 
Q— KBsq. 

Position after Wtaite'i» 27th move 

KtxR 

Black— D. M. Martinez. ' 

White— M. Weiss. 

31RxP(hi) 
32R— Q8 
33 RxQ 
34Kt— B5 

35 R— Q sq. 

36 P— KB4 
37KtxKt 
38 K— B2 (o) 
39K— B3 
40P— K5 

41 K— K4 

42 P X P en pass. 
43P— KR5 
44P— Kt4 
45P— Kt5 

BxB(n) 
K— Kt2 
KxR 
Kt— Kt3 
K— K sq. 

Klr-K2 

KxKt 
P-QR4 
B— Q5 
K— K3 
P— B4 ch. 
BxP 
B— B6 
B— B3 
Resigns. 

(/() Premature anyhow, as it only blocks in the KB still more and also gives access 
at Q4 to the adverse pieces, which cannot be driven away without weakening 
the QP. The better plan was O — O and then to reserve the option as long as 
jwsHible of advancing either the QP or QBP. 

[h) This is weak and unnecessary. KB — B sq. at once was the right play, and if 
White proceeded by B — Kt 5, then Black would at any rate gain a move by 
P-KB3. 

(I) By far better was P— KKt 8, which he could well afford, as he had nothing to 
fe'nr fioin an advance of the adverse KBP, especially as the adverse KB, which 
in similar positions creates difficulties against the K side, was already 

WEISS' GAMES. 103 

exchanged, and he would also thereby be enabled to counteract, by KB — Kt 2, 

the bearing of the adverse QB against his K side. 
id) His centre becomes disorganized by this advance. We believe he might have 

safely venture<l instead on P — B5, for though he lost a Pawn thereby, t£e attack 

on the open QKt file would afford him compensation, especially as Whitens 

QBP would have been doubled. 
(e) An excellent move which shows accurate judgment It completely paralyzes 

Black's centre. 
(/)A defensive development like Q — B2, followed by QR — Q sq., was more 

congenial to the position. 
ij/) The attack on the K side which is here instituted proves abortive in a few 

moves, and he only deprives his weak QP of an additional protection by this 

sally. Kt — Kt 3 at once was by far better. 
(/O He could not attempt to relieve himself by P — Q4, as White threatened to win 

a piece by B — B sq. 
(I) His game was still good enough for reasonable expectations of a draw, but by 

this seductive manoeuvre he leaves himself open to a most ingenious rejoinder, 

of which his opponent avails himself in a masterly manner. 
(J) Exceedingly beautiful in its connection with the sequence. 
(A') Admirable. See diagram. 
(/) No better was 28...K— Kt2; 29 Kt x R disch. , 29K— Kt8; 80 K1^K5ch., 

with an irresistible attack, 
(m) All most beautiful play, 
(/i) Of course this was an error. He should have played K — R2; but even then 

White would win easily with his two Rooks, by 81 B x B, followed by doubling 

the Rooks on the Q file; for after 81. . .Qx B, best, Black could not stir with 

his Queen without subjecting his KBP to the fatal capture from the Knight 
(o) The rest is easy enough. 

Game No. 78. 
Played in the first round, April 15th. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

eBxEtoh. 

PxB 

M. Weiatk 

J. Mason. 

7P— Q4 
8KtxP 

PxP 

P— B4(6) 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

9Ki^B6 

Q Q2' 

2KK1^B3 

QK<^B3 

Kir-B3 

lOKtxB 

QxKt 

3B— Kt6 

11 B— Kt5 

B— Kt2 

4 0— O 

B— K2 (o) 

12K^-Q5 

BxKt 

5Kt— B3 

P-Q3 

13PxB(c) 

Q-Q2(d) 

(a) Kt X P is the usual and better move. 

(6) A grave error of position judgment. B — Q2 was imperative. 

(c) White's QP is, at least for a long time, worth the two Pawns in front of it, on 

account of the hole at Black's QB8, which the latter will not be able to get rid 

of in the middle game. 
(d)Bj far better was 18. . .Q— Q sq.; 14 R— K sq. ch., 14 K— B sq.; 15 Q— B8, 

104 

WEIBS OAHES. 

14 R— K'sq. ck 
15BxKt 
16 Q— B3 
17QxP 
18P— QKt3(/) 
19RxRch. 
20 K— B sq. . 
21QxQch. 
22 R— K sq. cli. 
23P— KB4 

24 K— B2 

25 K— B3 

26 P— KB3 

27 R— K6 («7) . 
28PxRch'. 
29P— KKt4 
SOPxP 
31KxP 

32 P— B5 
33P— R4 
34K— B4 
35PxP 

36 P— B3 

37 K— K5 

38 P— B6 ch. 

39 K— Q6 
40KxP 

K— Bsq. 

PxB 

R— KKt sq. (e) 

R^Ksq. 

R^Kt2 

QxR 

Q-K2 

KxQ 

K— Q2 

P— B4 

P-QR4 

R— Kt3 

P— R4 

RxR 

KxP 

RPxPch. 

PxPch. 

K— B3 

P— B3 

P— Q4 

P— B5 

PxP 

K— B2 

K— K2 

K— B2 

KxP 

K— K3 

Position after White's 37th move 

R— K6 

Black — J. Mason. 

White— M. Weiss. 

41 K— 135 

42 K— Kt 5 
43KxBP 

K-Q2 
K— Q3 
K— B3 

44K— Q4 
45P— B4 

K Q3 
K— B3 

46 P— B5 

K— B2 

47K-Q5 
48 P— B6 ch. 

K-Q2 

Resigns. 

15 P — KR8, etc., and then after the exchange of Queens the KBP could be more 
easily protected and the exchange of one of the Rooks effected by R — K sq. if 
necessary, while the other Rook had a prospect of entering the centre via 
KKt sq. and KKt 4. 
(e) His game was bad, but the loss of the Pawn makes it worse, and he ought to 
have stuck to it as long as possible by advancing P — KB4. But 16. . .K — Kt2 
was not satisfactory for that pu^po^;e on account of 17 Q — Kt2 ch., 17 K— B 
sq.: 18Q— B4, and if 18...P— B4; 19 Q-R6 ch., 19K— Ktsq.; 20 R— K3, 
and wins. 

(/)This is an important move for making the ending quite safe. Its object is to 
prevent Black from playing P — B5 and then to form an attack against the 
QKtP by Rr— QKtaq., which would, at least, help Black to dissolve his doubled 
Pawn. 

(.7) Finishing off in a most vigorous manner. Herr Weiss has a genius not alone 
for end games, but also for simplifying positions in order to reduce them ti> 
such. In the further progress of the game it need only be noticed that White 
forms a p&ssed KBP which keeps Black^s King fixed on the K side until his 
Pawn moves on the other wing are exhausted, and then White's King crosses 
over and sweeps them off. Another remarkable feature of the position and of 
White's play is that the latter wisely leaves the QBP unmoved until Black in 
no more able to form a passed Pawn in the Q centre. See diagram. 

WEISS GAMES. 
Game No. 79. 

105 

^ 

Played in the second round, May 15th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 

J. Mason. 

IP— K4 
2KKlr-B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q3 
5B— K3 
6Kt-B3 
7Ki^K2 
8B— <5Kt5 
9BxKt(6) 
lOB— Kt5 
llBxKt(c) 
12 Klr-Kt3 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 
Kt— B3 
B— Kt3(a) 
P— Q3 
B— K3 
0—0 
PxB 
P— KR3 
QxB 
Q— K2 

13 0-0 
UPxP 
15KtxB 

16 Q— K2 

17 P— B3 
18QB— Qsq. 
19R^Q2 

20 Kl^K sq. 

21 Kl^B2 
22P— Q4 

23 P— QKt 4(d) 
24PxP 
25P— QR4 
26R— Ktsq. 
27 P— Kt3 

P— KB4 
BxP 
RxKt 
QR— KB sq. 
Q— B3 
E^B5 
P— Kt4 
P— Q4 
P— K5 
P— B4 
PxKtP 
P— B3 (c) 
Q— Q3 
B-B2(/) 

Rr-B6 

(a)BxB may also safely be adopted here, and by subsequent careful play on 
Black's part, he can prevent the opponent from dissolving the doubled Pawn in 
the centre, which ought to become troublesome in the ending. 

(6) We do not approve of the plan pursued here and in the next two moves for 
White, as the opponent obtains two Bishops, with a strong centre. 

(c) It would have been dangerous to try sacrificing tactics like 11 B — lU, 11 P — 
KKt4; 18 KtxP, 12 PxKt; 18 BxP, for Black could answer now 18... 
BxPch., and if 14 K— Bsq. (obviously, if 14 KxB, 14 Kt— Kt5 ch., etc., or 
if 14K— Q2, UKtxKPch., and wins), 14...K— Kt3, followed by Rr-KR 
sq., with a piece ahead and a safe game. 

(d) Attack and defence have been excellently conducted by the respective players. 
The move in the text is very fine, as it was important for White to keep the 
QP well protected in order to close the diagonal for the adverse Bishop. If 28 
PxP, 23BxP; 24KxP, 24BxPch.; 25K-R8q., 25B— Kt8; 26RxR, 
26 Qx R; 27 R— Q sq., best (if 27 P— KR8, Black's best plan is to exchange 
Queens by Q— KBScb., and then to play R — KB7, winning a Pawn), 27. . .Q— - 
B7; 28 Q— B4 ch., 28 Rr— B2, and the advance of Black's KP ought soon 
to win. 

(e) Necessary for the defence as well as for the attack, as White threatened 
P— Kt5, followed by Kfr-Kt4. 

(/) Perhaps good enough, as it forces an ugly hole on White's K side, which 
probably might have been better utilized than it actually was. But it is note- 
worthy that White offers and Black neglects the capture of the Queen for two 
Rooks, which, no doubt, under ordinary circumstances would generally be in 
favor of the two heavy pieces ; but in the present position the force of the 
passed ^P, and its being immediately available, was not taken sufficiently into 
account, and we believe it would have been sound play to give up the two 
Rooks, e. g., 26...RxP; 27QxR, 27RxQ; 28RxR, 28 P— K6; 29 R— K2 
(or 29 Kt X P, 29 B X P, with a strong attack), 29 . . . Q— Kt 8; 80 R^Kt 8 (if 80 
R— Q sq.; 80 Q— B4, threatening Q— Kt5, etc.), 80. . .Q— K5; 81 B(Kt8) x P, 
SlBxP; 82KtxB, 82QxKt; 88K— Rsq., 83QxP; 84 Rr-K8 ch., 84 K— 
B2, and should win. 

106 

WEISS GAMES. 

28 R— KB sq. 
29K— Kt2 
30 Ki>-K3 
31P— Kt5 
32RPxP 
33B^B2 
34QxP 
35QxP 
36PxR 

(g) Q-Q2 A 

P— KR4 
P— R5 
RPxP 

R(B8q.)-B2(i) 
PxP 
Q-Q3 U) 

RxKtPch. (i;) 
QxPch. 

37 K— R sq. Q— R6 cL. 

38K— Ktsq. QxKt cli. 

39R(Bsq.)— B2(/) 

B— B5 

40 R— K2 (m) Q— Kt 6 ch. 

41 K— B sq. Q— R6 ch. 

42 K— Kt sq. Q— Kt 6 ch. 

Drawn. 

{g) Probably White realized his danger now and would not, therefore, allow tho 

two Rooks to be given up for the Queen. 
(h) Waste of time. He ought to have gone on with the KRP at once, and, we 

believe, winning was an easy matter. His Queen was much better placed for 

this plan of attack where she was. 
(t) A good move. It was necessary to protect the Queen as well as the Bishop 

once more, in order to make his next exchange of Pawns safe. This Kook 

also threatened to come in strongly at KK2. He would gain nothing now by 

Q — Q8, as White would answer Q — K sq. 
(i)If 34...BxP; 35QxQ, 35RxQ; 36PxB, 36RxKt; 37 R— Bo, 37 R— Q6; 

38RxPch., 38K— Ra; 39 R— B sq., 39Rr~Q7ch.; 40 K— R3, 40RxP; 41 

K-Kt4, 41 R— Kt2; 42 RxRch., 42 KxR; 43 R^B7 ch., and ought to 

draw. 
(A;) A far-sighted combination, which secures a draw at least. 
(/) He could not escape the draw by interposing the other Rook, for Black would 

answer immediately 39...Q— Kt6 ch.; and if 40 R— Kt2, 40 Q— K6 ch., 

whereupon the same Rook would have to interpose again; for if 41 R (B sq.) — 

B2, 41 Q— K8 ch., and mates next move; or else if 41 K— R sq., 41 Q--R6 

ch., etc. 
(m)If 40 Q— K6, 40 Q— Kt6 ch.; 41 K— B sq., 41 Q— Q6 ch.; 42 K— K sq. (or 42 

R[QB2]— K2, 42P— K6, and wins; or if 42R[KB2]— K2, 42 B— E7 disch. ; 

43 K— Kt2, 43 Q--Kt6ch., and wins), 42. . .Q— K6 ch., and neither Rook 

dare interpose, for mate would follow accordingly by Q — KKt 8 or Q — B8. 

There was nothing more than a draw for White in Uiis perilous position, and 

Mr. Mason rightly played for it at once. 

Game No. 80. 
Played in the second round, May 21st. . 

FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 

BlMk 

5P— B4 

P— QB4 

M. Weiss. 

J. Masou. 

6PxP 

7P— QR3(6) 
,8Q— Kt4 

QKt— B3(a) 
BxP 

IP— K4 

P— K3 

0-0 

2P-Q4 

P-Q4 

9 B— Q3 (c) 

P— B4 

3 qKir-Bd 
4P— K5 

KKt^B3 

lOQ— R3 

BxKt 

KKt-Q2 

URxB 

Kt-B4(rf) 

WESBB GAMES. 

107 

12B— Q2 
ISQxKt 

14 0— 0—0 

15 K<r-K2 
16P— KKt4 
17RxP 
18Q— KKtS 

EtxBch. 
P— QR3(e) 
P— QKti 
B-Q2 
PxP 

B-K sq. (/) 
B— Kt3 

19 B— K3 

21KtxKt 
22E^Q2 
23 Er-Kt 5 

K<^K2 

K<r-B4 

RxKt 
R— QBsq. 
RxR 

Drawn. 

(a) A good idea and much superior 1».A. . .B x P, to which White would reply 7 
Q — KKt4, as in a game between the editor and Sefior Vazquez (compare 
Vol. IV. Interttational Chess Maganne, April, 1888, p. 120). 

(6) We think the best plan to maintain a slight adrant^;e is 7 B — K9, 7 B x P; 8 
B X B, 8 QKt X B; 9 KKt^BS, etc. 

(c) Kt — B8 was, we believe, preferable. 

(d) This and the preceding exchange are well played. Black now secures either 
another exchange of an important hostile attacking piece, or else, should White 
retreat B — ^K2, Black obtains a strong entrance with his Knight at QKt 5. 

(e) A necessary precaution now, for he cannot afford to let the adverse Knight in 
at Kt5. 

(f) With this well-conceived retreat Black soon secures himself on the K side 
against any kind of assault 

(ff) Clearly playing at once for a draw, and for fair reasons. If Mr. Weiss had lost 
this game, he would not have been sure even of the second prize, for he would 
have tied for second and third with Mr. Gunsberg. By drawing this game he 
secured the tie for first and second prizes, and as the position gave haraly any 
promise for more than a draw, Mr. Weiss was clearly justified in forcing that 
result as early as possible. 

Game No. 81. 

Played in the first round, April 11th. 

White 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

1P-<J4 
2 Q— Q3 (a) 
3B— B4 
4 QKt-B3 
6P— QB3 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

Black 
M. Weiss. 

P— Q4 

KKir-B3 
p ^3 

P— QR3 (6) 
P— B4 

6PxP 

BxP 

7P— K3 

Kt— B3 

8Kt— B3 

P QKt 4 
B— Kt2 

9B— K2 

10 0—0 

0—0 

llKt--Q4 
12KtxKt 

Q— Kt3(c) 
BxKt 

13 P— QKt 4 

B— K2 

(a) Eccentric and not commendable. 

(6) As usual, we object to the early advance of a wing Pawn on either side. 4. . . 

P— QB4 was quite safe, and if 5 Q--Kt5 ch., 5 QKt^Q2; or if 5 Kt— Kt5, 

5 Ktr~R3, etc. 
(c^ We should have preferred Kt — K2, with the following probable continuation : 

ll...Kt— K2; 13 B— Kt8, 12 Kt-Q2; 18 P— B4, ISKt^-QBsq.; 14B— B3, 

14 Kt— Q8; 15 P— QKt 8, 15 R— B sq., with the superior game. 

108 

WEISS OAMES. 

U B— K5 

15 B— Q4 

16 P— B4 

17 P— K4 (d) 
ISKtxP 
19QxB 
20BxKt(c) 
21B— Q3 

22 QIU-Q sq. 
23Q— B3 
24 K— B sq. 
25P— Kt4 
26 P— B5 
27PxP 
28PxP 
29 QB^K sq. 
30Q— Kt4 
31 B— KKt sq. 

Kt— Q2 
Q— B2 
QB— B sq. 
PxP 
BxKt 
Kt— B3 
BxB 
P— Kt3 
KBr— Qs 
Q— Kt3e 
B^B6 
BxP 
KPxP 
K— Kt2 
BPxP 
B^KBsq. 
B— B6 

if) 

32BxP(ff) 

33QxP 

34B^Kt2 

35 B^KKt sq. 

36 Q— B6 ch. 
37Q— Kt6 

38 Q— Kt 3 

39 Q— Q6 

40 Q— Q8 ch. 
41Q— Q2 
42Q— Q6 
43Q— B5 
44QxB 

45 Q— B sq. 

46 Q— Q3 
47yBesigns. 

K— Esq. 
PxB 

Q— Kt2ch. 
B— Kt2 
Br-QB2 
K— Kt sq. 
B^K2 
B— B6 
B (B6)— K6 
K— B2 
Q— K5 
E— K8(^) 
BxEcb. 
B— Q6 
B— KKt2 
QxQ 

(d) White has cleverly retrieved the inferiority of his position in the opening and 
takes the initiative for a centre attack. 

(e) We think that the position of the two Bishops and their bearing against the 
adverse King was quite worth a Pawn, and he ought to have avoided the 
exchange. After 20 <^B8, 20 QxP; 21 B— Q8, 21 Q— B8; 22 Q— R3. 22 
KR— Qsq.; 28 B— K5, 28?— KKtS; 24 R— B3, 24 Kt— R4 (24. . .Kt— Ksq. 
or — Q2, subjects him to mate in three moves by QxRP ch., K — R3 ch. and 
R— R8 mate); 25 P— B5, 26 KP x P; 26 B x P, etc. 

(/) 81 P— KR4 would not amount to much if Black answered Q — K6, followed by 
Q—R8 or —KKt 4 accordingly. 

(ff) The sacrifice is unsound against such a formidable opponent. 

(A) Black has concentrated his forces both for defence and attack in an admirable 
manner, and he now finisiies ofi with a few vigorous strokes. 

The game played in the second round lietween the same oppon- 
ents won the special prize for the most brilliant game of that round, 
and is given on page 2. 

'WSI8S OA1IE& 

109 

Game No. 

Played in the first round, March 28th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

M. Weias. 

IP— K4 
2KKt-B3 
3B— Kt5 
4 Kt— B3 (ft) 
6 P— Q3 (rf) 
6P— 04 
7KtxP 
8 0—0 
9B— QB4 
lOB— K3 
IIQ— Q2(e) 
12QR— Qsq. 
13PxP 
14B— Kt3 
15P— B4 
16BxB 
17B— B5 
18 Kt-K2 
19B— B2 

Black 
J. W. Showalter. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— K2 (a) 
B— KB3(c) 
QKt— K2 
PxP 
Kt— Kt3 
P— B3 
P-Q3 
KKt^K2 
0-0 
P-Q4 
PxP 
B— K3 
BxKt 

!Bq. 
P— Kt3 

Q-Kt2(/) 

20Kfr-Q4 
21KtxKt 
22BxQP 
23P— B4 
24Q-K3(sr) 
25Q-QR3 
26BxR 
27 B— K gq, 
28BxB 
29 R^K gq. 
30Q— KB3(A) 
31 P— QKt 3 
32B— Kt3 
33B— B2 
34B— Kt3 
35B— B2 

36 R— KB gq. 

37 B— K3 
38QxQ 

39 R— QB gq. 

40 Rr-B8 oh. 

41 B— B gq. (i) 

Kt— B4 
BxKt 
Q— B2 
B— Kt5 
R-rKsq. 
BxR 
B— K7 
RxB 
QxQBP 
KtxP 
R— Qgq. 
Q— B2 
Q— B4ch. 
Q— Q3 
l5 ch. 

(a) A deviation from the nsnal order of Black's development that might be turned 
somewhat in White's favor at once. 

(6) Namely, by 4 P — Q4, and if 4. . .Kt — B8 for the purpose of bringing about the 
ordinary variation, then 5 Kt— B3, 6 Px P (if 5. . .B— Kt5; 6 0—0, with the 
superior game ; for should Black answer 6 . . . B x Kt; 7 P x B, 7 Kt x P; 8 Q — 
K sq., etc.); 6 Ktx P, 6 O— O; 7 O — O, and White has a much better position 
than he usually obtains so early in the opening. 

(c) Novel, but otherwise of no merit. 

(d) Much stronger was Kt — Q6. 

(e) We would have preferred P— KB4, followed, if Black 0—0, by B— Kt8, which 
would not allow Black to release his game by P — Q4, as then the KP would be 
ready to advance to K5. 

(/) A valuable Pawi\ is now lost that might have been saved by P — KB4. 
(Sr)Much better was 24 B— Q4, 24 BxR; 26 QxB, threatening Q— Kt4, with a 

powerful attack. 
(A) If B X P, Black would answer Q — B8, winning. 
(Q Rather impetuous. Q — Q2 enabled him to make better preparations for the 

ending. 
O') Black has made a splendid fight so far, and by rights he ought to have 

defeated his neat opponent even now if he had oiuy continued 89. . .P— KR4, 

and if 40 R— B7, 40 Kt— K4, threatening Kt— Kt 6. 
(A) By this beautiful move White recovers the Pawn, with a good game. 

110 

42B— E3 

43Br-R8 

MBxKt 

45ExP 

46 K— B2 (m) 

47R-^Kt7 

48P— QI14 

49P— Kt4 

50 P— E5 

51PxP 

52 K— B sq. 

53 K— K2 

54 K— B sq. 

55 K— K2 

(0 If P— QR4, WWte would answer R^QKtS. 

(m) Unnecessary. He might have proceeded at once with R — Kt7 and the 
advance of the Pawns on the Q wing. 

(n) Black ought to have been well satisfied with a draw, especially in the first 
round, where it scored half, but he is trying to do more and evidently at some 
risk. 

(o) This Pawn practically defends all others and is now too far advanced from his 
natural support, the King. No doubt, the move in the text was merely the 
result of a miscalculation. Its effect is fatal to Black's game. P — B6 instead 
would have produced a well-known book position which is absolutely drawn. 
The point of the play is that Black can evidently defend the RP with the King 
if attacked bv the Rook alone. Should White, however, also bring his K — R4, 
then all Black has to take care of is that his RP be not taken with a check and 
that his King do not move too far away from his Pawns. The King moves 
best alternately to K— Kt8 and KBS, but not to R8. If Black take that 
precaution, then neither Rook nor King will be able to take the RP, or else the 
two remaining Pawns will advance victoriously. 

WEISS 

GAMES. 

B^KB2 

56 K— B sq. 

R^BSch. 

P— KKt4(0 

57 K— K2 

B— KKt8(n) 

RxB 

58 P— R6 

RxPch. 

P— B5 

59K— Q3 

RxP 

P— R4 

60P— R7 

R— QR7 

R— B3 

61R— KtSch. 

K— B2 

P— Kt5 

62 P queens 

RxQ 

R— QB3 

63RxR 

P— R5 (o) 

PxP 

64R^R4 

K— Kt3 

R^B7 ch. 

65RxP 

K— Kt4 . 

R^B8 ch. 

66 K— K3 

P— R6 

R B7ch. 

67R— B8 

K— Kt3 

R— B8 ch. 

68K— B4 

Resigns. 

R^BTch. 

Game No. 83. 

Played in the second round, April 22d. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

IVfdte 

Black 

.J. W. Showalter. 

M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

3B— Kt5 

Kt— B3 

4 0— 0 

B— K2(a) 

5 P— Q3 (b) 

6 P— KR3 (c) 

U' 

7Kt— B3 

P QR3 

8B— R4 

9K<^K2 
lOP— KKt4(e) 
11 Kt— R2 
12PxQP(y) 
13B— Kt3 
14 P— QB3 
15Kt— Kt3 
16K— Kt2 
17KtxP(A) 

P— R3(d) 

Kt— KR2 

P-KR4(/) 

P-Q4 

QxP 

Q— Qsq 

B-Q3 

Q-R6 

PxP 

K— R sq. 

WEISS OAHES. 

HI 

18P— KB4 

19KtxP 

20PxKt 

P— B4 

KtxKt 
P— B5 (0 

21BxP 

22 K— B2 

23 Besigns. 

BxPch. 
QxBch. 

(a) 4 . . . Kt X P is preferable. 

(6) For now White might proceed with the attack, thus : 5 P — Q4, 5 Kt x P (or 
5. . PxP; 6 KtxP, and if 6. . .KtxP; 7 Kt— B5, with an excellent attack); 
6 P X P, 6 P— QR8; 7 KB— QB4, with the advantage that the KB occupies a 
commanding diagonal, whereas, in other variations of this opening, this 
Bishop is driven biack to QI14, and time has to be lost to get him into activity ; 
besides that, Black usually obtains the opportunity of exchanging it for the 
KKt by Ktr-QB4. 

(c) Loss of time, as usual. 

(d) No better than the opponent's 6th move. It was preferable to retreat Kt — K 
sq., followed soon by P — KB4. 

(e) Weakening the K side still more. 

(y) An excellent initiation of the attack on the K side. 

(y) This exchange of Pawns is injudicious, as it subsequently facilitates the open- 
ing of the KB file for the adversary by P — KB4. Much better was P — KB3. 

(h) A grave error of judgment. By retaking with the Pawn he could effectually 
prevent the attack of P — KB4, which would be even disastrous for the 
opponent to attempt, e. g., 17 PxP, 17 K— E sq.; 18 R— KR sq., 18 P— KB4 
(or 18. . .P— KB8; 19 Kt— B8, 19 Q x P; 20 Kt— R4, and wins); 19 Kt— B8, 19 
QxP; 20 Kt— KtS, and wins. 

(t) After this powerful move White's game becomes altogether disintegrated. 

Game No. 84. 

Played in the first ronnd, March 26th. 

RUT LOPEZ. 

White 

J. Tanbenhaus. 

1 P— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3 B— Kt 5 
4B— R4 
5 0—0 
6P— Q4 
7B— Kt3 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QE3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
P— QKt4 
P— Q4 

8PxP 
9P— B3 
lOB— KB4(o) 

11 B— B sq. (b) 

12 K1^Q4 

13 B— ^4 
14B— K3 
15QxB 

16 Q— Q sq. 

17 Kt-Q2 

B— K3 
B— B4 
P— Kt4 
P— Kt5 
KtxKP 
Kt-Kt3 
BxKt(c) 
P— QB4 
Q— Q3 
KtxKt 

(a) This costs a valuable Pawn. The right play was 10 QKt— Q2, 10 Kt x Kt; 11 
BxKt, 11 O— O; 12R— Ksq., followed by B— K8, with a little the better 
game. 

(6) If 11 B— KKt8, then, of course, 11 . . P— KR4, with a winning attack. 

(c) Much better was P — KRi, after which the Pawn could have been more easily 
maintained without giving White attacking opportunities. 

112 

ISQxKt 
19B— R6 
20KE— Ksq.rcO 
21B— B2 
22QE.-Qsq. 

23 PxP 

24 IU-K4 (g) 
25RxRcli. (A) 
26BxKt 
27B— K3 
28QxP 
29RxQ 
30R-Q6 
SlRxR 
32 E— B gq. 
33B— Q4 

34 K— K sq. 

35 K— Q2 

36 K— K3 
37B— Kt6 

((f) Q — Et 5 would be of no use on account of the reply Q — Q sq. 

(e) Rather premature. P — QB4, with the view of advancing P — B5, seems more 
promising. 

(/)If ai...QR— Qsq.; 2aQ— Kt5, 22 Q— K2; 28 BxKt, 28RPxB: 24QxQ, 
24 R X Q; 25 B— Kt 6, and wins. 

(jT) White has fought very well against large odds in the hands of a formidable 
opponent, and this fine move awards him at last a draw in a game in which 
the chances were otherwise strongly against him after his mistake in the 
opening. 

(A) The only way to avoid loss. If 25 R x P, 25 Q x R; 26 Q x Q, 26 R x Q, and 
wins, for, of course, the Rook dare not retake on account of the mate impend- 
ing from the other Rook. 

(/) The ending has also been well played by White, who had still to exorcise some 
care not to lose, being a Pawn nehind. 

WEISS OAHEH. 

0-0 

Position after White's 24th move 

KR— Ksq. 

R— K4 

BxP 

Black— M. Weiss. 

■ ■!■*■ 

■ ■ ■ BiJ 

RxR 

Py"R 

iMJ^iJ'^SM 

X A X> 

■IB B B 1 

1"^ 

C"«"l"„" 

B^K3 

B B B B ^ 

BxR 

B— B5 ch. 

XT TTO 

fl iRmm 1 

K — ^K3 
P— B4 

White— J. Taubenhaus. 

P— R4 38K— Q4(t) 

P— R6 

Drawn. 

Game No. 85. « 

Played in the seoond round, April 19th. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Bhck 

4 0— O 

KtxP 

M. Weiss. 

J. Taubenhaus. 

5P— Q4 
6B— R4 

P QKt4 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

7B— Kt3 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt-B3 
Kt-B3 

8PxP 

B— K3 

3 B— Kt5 

9P— B3 

B— K2 

113 

10 R— K sq. 

11 Kt— Q4 
12PxKt 
13P— B3 
14 P— KR4 
ISPxKt 
16B— K2 
17 Kt— B3 
18B— B2 
19Q— Q3 
20B— B4 
21BxP 

22 KB— QKt 3(d) 
23IU-K2 
24Q— K2 

25 Q— Kt 2 

26 K— R sq. 

27 R— Q sq. 
28Q— Kt3(/) 
29Ki^R4 

(a) He ought to have avoided the necessity of the exchange that follows, which 
fortifies the adverse centre and leaves his own QBP weak. Q — Q3 was better. 

(6) If now 11 . . .Q — Q2; 12 Kt x B, and no matter how Black may retake, White 
answers K x Kt, winning a piece. And if 11 . . . Kt — BA; 12 B — B2, winning at 
least a Pawn. 

(c) P — KK8 was now absolutely necessary in order to provide an ultimate retreat 
for the Knight, which obviously has no escape after White's next two moves. 
It should TO noticed that 12. . .P — KB4 was of no use on account of 18 P x P 
in passing, 18. . .BxP (or 18. ..BxP; 14 RxKt, and wins); 14 P— B8, 14 Kt 
— QS; 15 Rx B, and wins. 

((f) A very good move with the object of playing Kt — K4 eventually. 

(e) Of course, if B — QB5, White would answer Q x P ch. 

(/) An excellent move which shuts out the adverse Bishop. 

(g) This does not mend matters, but Black had no good move. If R(B2) — K2 at 
once. White could effectually answer Kt x K4. 

(fi) Good enough, but we think that Kt — K4 was still stronger; for if 81 . . . K — B 
sq.; 82 Kt— Q6, threatening KtxB, followed by P— B4. 

(t) A desperate effort to retrieve a lost game, but unavailing against the oppon- 
ent's correct play. 

WEISS 

OAHES. 

0— 0(a) 

30 Kt-B5 

Q-R2 

KtxKt(6) 

31 P— B4 (A) 

RxB(t) 

tStI 

32BPxR 

BxP 

33RxB 

QxKt 

Kt— R6 ch. 

34Q— K3 

Q— B sq. 

KBxP 

35 R^KB2 

Q K2 

BxP 

36 B B2 

BxB 

P— QB3 

37RxB 

R— KBsq. 

P— B3 

38R^B4 

RxR 

P— Kt3 

39QxR 

P— B4 

PxP 

40Q— B6 

QxQ 

B— Kt4 

41PxQ 
42R--Q2 

P-B5 

E^B2 

K— B2 

B-B4 

43RxP 

KxP 

R— Ksq. 

44R^QB6 

P— B6 

B K6ch. 

45PxP 

PxP 

B— Q6 

46RxP 

P— KR4 

B— B4(e) 

47R^-QR3 
48RxP, and 

K— B4 

P-Kt5(a) 
R(B2) K2 

wins. 

THE TIE CONTEST BETWEEN MESSRS. TSCHIGORIN AND 
WEISS FOR FIRST AND SECOND PRIZES. 

Game No. 86. 

First game, played May 22d. 

RUY IX)PEZ. 

White 
M. Weiss. 

1 P— K4 

2 KKir-B'6 

3 B— Kt 5 
4B— R4 
5Kt— B3 
6 Kt— Q5 
7P— Q3 
8KtxB 
9P— B3 

10 P— KR3 (c) 

11 P— KKt4 (d) 

12 R— KKt sq. (e) 

13 B— K3 

14 P— KR4 
15PxP 

16 Q— K2 

17 0—0—0 
18BxKt((/) 

19 Kt— Q2 

20 P— B3 
21B— Kt3(/0 

22 R^R sq. 

23 K— Kt sq. 

24 QRr-Kt sq. 

25 Kt— B sq. 

Black 

M. Tschigorin. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
K1^B3 
B— Kt5(a) 
B— K2 
P-Q3 
QxKt 
P— KR3 (h) 
O— O 
Kt— R2 

Kt— Q sq. 
Kt-K3 (/) 
P— KKt4 
PxP 
Q-B3 
Kt— B5 
QxBch. 
K— Kt2 
B— K3 
R^Rsq. 
Kt— B3 
B-Q2 
P— Kt4 
P— R4 

26P— R3 
27BPxP 
28RxR(;) 

29 PxP 

30 B— Q sq. 

31 Kt— K3 
32Kt— B4 

33 R— Kt2 

34 K— B2 

36 Kt— R3 (k) 
36P— Kt5 

P— Kt5(0 
PxP 
RxR 
R— R6 
B— Kt4 
K— B sq. 
R— R7 
R— R8 
P-Q4 
B— B3 
B— Kt2 

Position after Black's 40th move 

RxB 

Black — M. Tschigorin. 

White — M. Weiss. 

48 Q— Q8 ch. 
49QxP 
50 K— B sq. 

K— R2 
Q— Q6 ch. 
QxBP 

51QxKP 

QxKtP 
QxQ 

K— Kt2 (o) 
Q-B3 
K— K4 
P— B3 

52 Q— B5 ch. 
53PxQ 
54E Q2 
55Kt— Q4 
56 K— B3 

Drawn. 

THE TIE CONTEST. 115 

37R— B2 R— Kt8 

38Q— Q2 Q— Kt6 

39R— R2 PxP 

40QPxP RxB(Z) 

41 R— E8 ch. (w) K— Kt 2 

42QxPcli. KxR 

43QxKtch. K— Ktsq. 

44 KxR Q— B7 

45 Kt— B2 («) Q— B8 ch. 
46K— Q2 QxKtP 
47P— Kt4 B— R3 

(a) Not a good move in this situation. The German authorities justly prefer B — 
K2 at this juncture. 

(b) No more justifiable than usual 

(c) With the object of supporting a Pawns' attack against the K wing, and as the 
opponent has already furnished a mark by advancing his KRP, and White 
means to O — O — O, this plan Ls feasible. 

id) This is premature and only leaves an opening in White's camp at KB4. The 
advance ought to have been reserved, at any rate, until after due preparation 
by B— K3 and 0—0—0. 

(e) If 12 P— Kt5, 12 P— KB4; 18 Kl^R4, 13 P— KKtS; 14 B— Kt3, UK— Kt2, 
and Black will have the initiative by P — KB3 sooner or later. 

(/) Black is manoeuvring excellently against the weak point in the adversary's 
battle order. 

(y)This exchange was not advisable, as it allows the opponent to brinff his 
inactive Knight into good play. 18 Q— B sq. was quite safe, for if 18. . .Kt — 
Q4; 19KtxKtP, 19KtxB; 20KtxKt, 20KtxQ; 21 Kt x Q ch. , with a Pawn 
ahead. The retreat of the Queen and the retaining of the QB would also be 
more effective for the purpose of instituting a centre attack subsequently by 
P— Q4. 

(A) As the King had to move subsequently in order to relieve the Knight, we 
should have preferred K — Kt sq. at once. 

(0 A bold sacrifice of a P&wn, but its soundness is, we think, very questionable. 

(J) The exchange of Rooks is injudicious, and he must have at least gained a 
move by simply retaking with the Pawn at once, for if then 28. . . R x R; 29 
R X R, 29 R— QKt sq. ; 30 R— R8, 30 R x P; 31 Kt— K8, threatening Kt— K2, 
as well as Kt— QS eventually, and should win. 

(k) Kt— Q2 was, we believe, a safer defence. 

(I) This beautiful sacrifice is now forced as the only resource, but, no doubt, it 
was previously foreseen and relied upon. See diagram. 

(in) This is, of course, also compulsory for White, for if K x R, Black would sweep 
off the Pawns, commencing with Q x BP ch. 

(n) With this feeble move White lets a sure victory slip out of his hands. The 
proper play was 41 K — B sq., with the following probable continuation : 41 . . . 
Q— B8 ch. (of course, if 41. . .Bx P; 42 Q— Q8 c^m and wins); 42 K— Q2, 42 
Q— B7 ch. ; 43 K— B8, 48Q— Q5 ch. ; 44 K— B2, 44 B— B sq. ; 45 Q— Kt 5 ch. , 
followed by Q — Q2, and White ought to win, slowly but surely. 

(o) After this the draw is secured. 

116 

THE TIE CONTEST. 

Game No. 87. 

Second game, played May 23d. 

PONZIANI OPENING. 

Whif^ 

Black 

M. Tschigorin. 

M. Weiss. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt^B3 

QKt— B3 

3P— B3 

Kt— B3 (a) 

4P Q4 

KtxP 

5P Q5(6) 

Kt— Kt sq. 

6B-Q3 

Kt-B4 

7KtxP 

KtxBch. 

SKtxKt 

P Q3 
B— K2 

90—0 

10 Kt-Q2 

0—0 

11 Ki^B3 

B— B4 

12Kt— Q4 

BxKt 

13QxB 

B— B3 

14 Kt— B5 (c) 

Kt^Q2 

15Q— Kt3 
16B— K3 
17K<^Q4 

18 Q— B3 

19 QB^Q sq. 

20 P— QKt 3 

21 P— B4 
22B— Kt5 
23B— B6 
24 B X B cli. 
26KR^K8q.(/) 

26 Q— QB3 

27 Kt— B2 
28B^-Q3 
29KtxB 
30 R— K3 

K— R sq. 
P— KKt 3 
Kt— Kt3 
B— Kt2 
Q— Q2 
QR— K sq. 
Kt— B sq. (d) 
Kt-K2 
Kt^Kt sq. (e) 
KxB 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
Q-Qsq. 
RxRch. (g) 
K— Kt sq. 
R— Ksq. 
Drawn. 

(a) We prefer the defence 3 . . . P — Q4, which, we believe, gives the second player 
at least a slight advantage in position. 

(6) 5 B— Q3, 5 P— Q4; 6 Kt x P, 6 Kt x Kt; 7 P x Kt, threatening to win a Pawn 
by Bx Kt, followed by Q — R4 ch., is, we believe, stronger. 

(c) The Knight is here exposed to &a attack from the adverse KtP, which enables 
Black afterward to retreat his B — Kt 2 and make bis K side secure. B — K3, 
or else Kt — K2, followed by Kt — Kt3, was preferable. 

(d) An excellent move that shows great foresight. He recognizes the necessity of 
bringing the Knight to the K side in order to neutralize the adverse attack. 

(e) This fine defensive move, which has evidently been well forecalculated, 
provides a guard for the King against the diagonal attack which White 
threatens by Q — QB8 after exchanging Bishops. 

(/) No more promising was 26 Q— QB8, 25 Kt— B3; 26 R— Q3, 26 Q— Q sq. ; 27 
R^B3, 27 R^K4, etc. 

(jr) The game now drifts into an easy draw. 

THE TIE CONTEST. 

117 

Game No. 88. 

Third game, played May 24th. 

DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

M. Weiss. 

M. Tschigorin 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKin-BS 

QKt— B3 

3 B— Kt 5 

Kt-B3 

4Kt— B3 

B— Kt5 

50—0 

0— O 

6P— Q3 

P Q3 

7BxKt(a) 

PxB 

8Kt-K2 

B— Kt5(6) 

9Kt-Kt3 

Kt-E4 

lOP— KB3 

BxKt 

llQxB 

KtxKt 

12PxKt 

B— B4 ch. 

13B— K3 

B— Kt3 

14P— KKt4 

ISBxB 

16R— B2 

17 P— QKt 3 

18P— QE4 

19Q-K3 

20 QR— KB sq. 

21P— Kt5 

22Q— Kt3(e) 

23BxBch. 

24RxRch. 

25QxKtP 

26 K— B2 

27QxQch. 

Q-K2 
BPxB(c) 
Q— K3 
P-QR4 
P— B3 (d) 
QR— Kt sq. 
P— Q4 
P— Q5 
PxP 
RxR 
KxR 
K— B2 
Q— B3 
KxQ 

Drawn. 

(a) White's opening is of a very tamo character, and there is little scope for com- 

pUcations in that sort of game. 
(6) We prefer 8. . .KB— QB4; for if 0 P— Q4, 9 Px P; 10 QKtx P, 10 Ktx P; 11 

KtxP, 11 Q — K sq., followed by B — Kt8, with the superior game. 

(c) Certainly inferior to RP x B, which would have preserved some good attacking 
prospects in the centre as well as on the open QR file. 

(d) We would have avoided as long as possible this advance which only affords 
the adversary an early opportunity of dissolving his doubled Pawn, as will 
be seen. 

(e) With the last two moves White, who was evidently aiming at a draw, attains 
his object 

Game No. 89. 

Fourth game, played May 27th. 

PONZIANl OPENING. 

White 
M. Tschigorin. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 

Blade 
M. Weiss. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 

3P— B3 
4P— Q4 
5P— Q6 
6B— Q3 
7 KtxP 

Ki^B3 
KtxP 
Kt— Kt sq. 
K1^B3 (a) 
P-Q3 

(a) A deviation from the second game of the tie, in which Herr Weiss played 

118 

THE TIE CONTEST. 

8 B— Kt5 ch. 
9KtxB 

10 0—0 

11 B— Kt5 
12QBxKt 
13Kt— Q2 
14Q— Kt4(rf) 
15fi— B4 

16 KB— K sq. 
17QxQ(e) 
18 Kt— K4 

B-Q2 

QKtxKt 

B— K2 (6) 

0—0 

BxB(c) 

Kt^B4 

P— QB3 

E^Ksq. 

Q-Q2 

KtxQ 

P— KKt3 

19B— Kt3 
20 K— B sq. 
21KtxKtch.(/) 
22B— E4 
23B— B2 
24BxBch. 
25 R— K sq. 
26KxR 
27 K— Q2 
28PxP(^) 

B— Kt2 
Kt— B3 
BxKt 
P— QKt4 
P-QR4 
RxB 
RxRck 
P— Kt5 
PxPch. 

Drawn. 

{b) Though White has tM-o Bishops and Black's KB is confined, the former's 
advantage is set off by the quick development of all of Black's minor pieces 
and by the di£Bculty of White in clearing his Q side and at the same time 
keeping his far-advanced QP well defended. 

(c) Herr Weiss here shows excellent judgment in the manner of recapture, for by 
keeping the Knight at Q2 he makes sure of obtaining possession of the open K 
file for the Book, and also of driving off the adverse Bishop by P — QR8, 
followed by Kt — QB4, or else of effecting another exchange that clears his 
game. Had he retaken with the Knight, he would have been under the 
necessity soon of weakening his Pawns on the Q side by P — QK8 and P — QKt4, 
in order to diModge the adverse Bishop from his commanding position. 

(d) If 14 P— QKt 4, the game might have proceeded : 14 . . . P— <jR3; 15 P x Kt, 15 
PxB; 16PxP, 16BxP; 17R— QBsq., 17P— Kt5; 18PxP, ISQxQP, 
with the superior game. 

(e) The issue is practically decided, for it is evident that neither side will venture 
anything that might lead to more than a draw. 

(/)This settles the draw conclusively — Bishops of opposite colors and Pawns 
even. 

(g) The game, as a whole, would be hardly worthy of record only for its imirartance 
in the result of the Tournament. 

GUNSBEBG'S GAMES. 

Game No. 90. 

Played in the first round, April 6tli. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 

Black 

I. Gansberg. 

D. Q. B 

IP— K4 

P-K4 

2KKtr-B3 

QKt— B3 
B B4 

3B— B4 

4P— Q3 

P Q3 
K<^B3 

5P— B3 

6Q— K^ 

B— K3 

7B— Kt3 

•BxB(o) 

8RPxB 

Q— Q2 

9K1^R3 

BxKt(6) 

lORxB 

P— KR3 

IIP QKt4 

Kt— K2 

Baird. 

12 P— 113 (c) 

13 P— Q4 
14KtxP 

15 0—0 

16 R— Q gq. (e) 

17 P— B3 (/) 
ISRxKt 

19 P— QB4 

20 R— Q sq. 

21 Q— KB2 

22 R— R5 (A) 

23 R— R sq. 

24 P— Kt4 
26B— Q2 

P— R3 

PxP(d) 
0—0 

KtxKt 
R-K3 
Q-K2 
R— Ksq. 
Ki^R4(sr) 
R— K4 
P— QB3(i) 
Kt— B3 

P-Q4 0") 

{ J) It is not worth while, for the sake of forming a doubled Pawn, to open the 
adverse R file. As will be seen, for instance, in the present game the QR 
comes in strongly for the attack on the third row. 

(6) P — QR3, with the view of retreating B — R2, was better than this exchange. 

(c) As usual, we see no necessity for this move on either side. 

(rf) Not good, as it allows the adverse Knight a better post than he had. Kt— Kt 3 
was better. 

(e) The defensive move P— KB3 was more called for, and might have been 
followed by Q— KB2 if Black still played Kt— B4. 

(f) Of course, if Kt x Kt, the Queen retakes. 
(ff) Kt — Q2 was much preferable. 

(A) Useless and even dangerous. The proper move was P— KKt 4 at once. 

(*) Black could have obtained here the much superior position at least by 23. . . 
P— KB4; 24 P— Kt 4 (if 24 P x P, 24 R— K7, and wins), 24 . . . P x KP; 25 P x 
Kt, 25P— K6; 26BxP, best (if 26 Q— K2, 26 Q— R5, followed by R— Kt4 
ch. and R — Kt6, with a winning game), 26. . .RxB, with much the best of 
the game. 

(»Rr— K3, foUowed by Kt— Q2, was safer. 

120 

aiTNSBEBO 8 aAlfE& 

26B— B3 
27BxR 
28P— B4 
29 Q— K2 
30P— Kt6 
31Q— K3 
82 P— QB5 
33PxP 
34QxP 
35R-R3 
36QxQ 
37R— K3 
38 K— B2 
39K— Kt3 
40KxP 
41R— K7 
42K— Kt3 
43R-Q4 
44E^B7 
46PxP 

(k) Still there was no necessity for sacrificing the exchange. He could well play 
26. . .R— K8, and if 27 P— K6 (27 BP x P, 27 P x P; 88 P x P. 28 R^K7; 29 Q 
— Kt 8 [if the Queen move elsewhere, Black obtains an excellent attack by 
Q— K6ch. or Kt— Q2, accordingly], 29. ..Q— K6 ch.; 30 K— R sq., 30 Kt— 
K5, and wins), 27 Kt— Q2; 28 PxP (if 28 P— B4, 28 PxP; 29 P— B5, 29 
B X P, and Black has two Pawns for the exchange, with the better position), 
28.. PxP; 29P— B4, 29 Kt— Kt 8, etc. 

(Q With this Black delivers the key to his pK>8ition. 88. . .Q— KB4; 34 B— KB sq., 
84 Q— Kt 8; 86 B — K sq., 85 Kt — B8 might have given him fair prospects of 
fighting for a draw. 

(m) After the exchan^ of Queens, Black makes a hard struggle, but he has to 
succumb to superiority of material and skill. 

PxKP(Jfc) 

46RxBP 

B^-QB7 

QxB 

47B— B7 

P— R4 

Q— K3 

48P— B6 

P— R5 

P— R4 

49 RxP 

R— B6 ch. 

Ki^Q2 

50K— B2 

Kt— Q4 

P-B3 

51 R— B8 ch. 

K— R2 

PxP 

52 R— R4 ch. 

K— Kt3 

KiH-K4(0 

63R-Q4 

Kt— K2 

QxP 

54R— B7 

K— B3 

Q— Kt5ch. 

55R— Q8 

R— B4 

PxQ(m) 

56 R— B8 ch. 

K— K3 

Kt— B6 ch. 

57 R— K8 

Rr-B4ch. 

R— KB sq. 

58 K-K3 

R^B2 

KtxP 

59K— Q4 

P-Kt4 

Kt— R2 

60 K— B5 

P— Kt5 

Kt— B3 ch. 

61R— R7 

K— B3 

E^Kt sq. 
P— QKt3 

62 P— B7 

P— Kt6 

63RxKt 

RxR 

PxP 

64 R^R6 ch. 

Resigns. 

RxP 

Cteme No. 91. 

Played in the second round. May 4tL 

White 
D. G. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2P— KKt3 
3B— Kt2 
4P— Q3 
5Q— K2 
6B— KKt5(i) 

QUEEN'S FIANCHETTO. 

Black 
I. Gunsberg. 

P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— K4 (a) 
P— KB4 
KK<^B3 
B-QB4 

7 KKfr-B3 

PxP 

8PxP 

P— KR3 

9BxKt 
10 P— B3 

8iiB 

IIP— QKt4 

B— K2 (c) 

12QKt-Q2 

P— QB3 

13P— QR4 
14 0—0 

P-Q8 
Kl^-Q2 

15 KR-Q sq. 

Q-K3 

OCNSBERO 8 GAMES. 

121 

16 Kt— B sq. 

17 Kt— K3 

18 Kt— B5 

19 B— R3 
20KtxQP(e) 
21KtxR 

22 Q— Q2 

23 Kt— Q8 
24KtxB 
25KtxKt 
26PxP 
27R^QKt8q.(/t) 

28 R— KB sq. 

29 QR— K sq. 
30R^K2 

31 Q— B2 
32PxP 
33 Q— K4 (i) 
34RxQ 
35K— Kt2 0') 

P— QR4 
R^B2 
B— KB sq. 
PxP(rf) 
QxB 
Q-K3 (/) 
Kt— B4 
Q-B3 
QxKKt 
BxKt(g) 
B— Q5 
R— KB sq. 
QxKP 
Q-Q4 
Q— B6 
P— QB4 
PxP 
QxQ 
R— QR sq. 
RxP 

36P— KB4 
37K— R3 
38R(K4)xP 
39R— K4 

40 R— QB sq. 

41 R— KB4 
42R(B4)— Bsq. 
43 R— KB5 
44R^Q5 

45 R— Q6 ch. 
46P— Kt4(0 
47KxP 
48K— B5 

49 K— K4 (to) 

50 R— QKt sq. 

51 R^KB sq. 

52 K— B5 
53RxR 

And the game 
abandoned 

R— R7 ch. 

PxP 

K— R2 

R— Q7 

K— Kt3 

K— R2 

P— KR4 

K— R3 

P— Kt4(*) 

K— Kt2 

PxPch. 

R— Kt7ch. 

R^B7 ch. 

RxP 

B— B3 

B— Q6 

R— B7 ch. (n) 

BxR 

was ultimately 

as drawn. 

(a) Anderssen favored this move in this form of opening, but nsually P — K8 is 

preferred. 
<6) QKt— B3 was better play, 
(c Better was B — Q8, as it protected the BP and threatened P— <JR4, with the 

better game. 
(d) Black is not sufSciently on his guard and allows him.%lf to be outwitted 

cleverly. 
(f ) Very finely played. 
(/) If 20 K X R. 20 B X Kt, and, of course, Black could not retake on pain of 

losing his Queen. 
iff) 2.5. . .Px P; 26 Q — Q3 would have cost a piece. 
(h) White does not support his advantage with the same skill as he exercised in 

obtaining it 27 R — R2, with the view of forming a winning passed Pawn on 

the QR file and also protecting the KBP once more, would have spared him a 

troublesome defence and given him free hand for the offensive. If then 27. . . 

B— B6; 28 Q— P2, 28 Bx P; 29 Q— B4 ch., 29 K— R sq. ; 80 R^-Q8, and wins, 
(t) Throwing away his most valuable Pawn. 38 R— Kt sq., 83 P— K5; 34 R^ 

Kt 3, 84 P— K6; 35 R x P, 85 B x R; 36 R x B, was, perhaps, his best plan. 
(J) Much better was 35 I^-QB sq., 35 R x P; 36 R^B2, for if 86. . . P— B5; 87 K 

— Kt 2, 87 K— B2 (if 87 . . . P— B6 ; 88 R x QBP, and wins) ; 88 P— KB4, winning 

a Pawn. 
(k) Black has defended himself in a masterly manner, and he clears the board 

from adverse Pawns by this advance which threatens mate in two moves. 
(?) Best, for otherwise P — Kt 5 ch., followed by B — B3 ch., would win the 

exchange. 
(m) Obviously, if 59 K x P, 59 B— K6 ch., and wins, 
(n) The position is a theoretically well-known drawn one, and with common care 

Black was bound to effect that result. 

122 

aUNSBEBO'S OAHES. 

Game No. 92. 

Played in the second round, May 9th. 
QUEEN'S FIANCHETTO. 

White 

D. G. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2P— KKt3 
3B— Kt2 
4 P— QB3 
5P— Q3 

6 K1^KB3 

7 0—0 

8 R— K sq. 
9B— KB4 

10 QKfc— Q2 

11 Kt— QB4 (a) 
12B— KKt5 
13BxKt(6) 

14 Kt-K3 

15 Ktr-Q5 
16Kt— KKt5(c) 

17 B— KR3 

18 Kt— B3 
19B— Kt2 

20 Kt— K3 (d) 

21 Kt— B sq. 
22PxP(e) 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. 

P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— KKt3 
B— KKt2 
P— K3 
Kt— K2 
0-0 
P— QB4 
P-Q3 
QKt— B3 
P— K4 
Q— Q2 
QxB 
QR— Q sq. 
Q— Q2 
P— KR3 
P— KB4 
Q— KB2 
B— B sq. 
P— B5 
P— KKt4 
P— KtS 

23Kt— R4 
24 P— KB3 

26 Kt-B5 (/) 
26PxB 

27 P— Q4 (/») 
28PxQP 
29BxKt 
30QxP 

31 K— R sq. 

32 QBr— Q sq. 

33 P— B6 
34QxP 

35 K1^-Q2 

36 K— KKtsq. 

37 Q— B3 (0 

38 Kt— B sq. 

39 Q— Q5 
40E^Kt2 
41RxR 

42 E^-QB sq. 

43 Q— Kt 7 
44R-B7 

45 R— R7 ch. 

46 Kt— K3 

47 Resigns. 

ch. 

PxP 

P— KR4 

BxKt 

Kir-K4 (g) 

PxQP 

KtxBPch. 

PxB 

BxPch. 

BxP 

B— K4 

xP 
B2 
R— KR2 
K— R sq. 
Q— R3 
Q-R4 
R— KB sq. 
R— Kt2 
KxR 
K— R sq. 

!-Kt4 0') 
B6 
K— Kt sq. 
P— B7 (A) 

(a) The development on both sides was rather unwieldy and contrary to estab- 
lished principles, but White scores the first point here in weakening the 
adverse position and forming a weak Pawn and a hole in the opposite centre. 

(b) But he would have done better now to preserve his BLshop and to retreat the 
same to Q2. 

{(!) This Knight and afterward the Bishop enter in the game on an adventurous 
attack that only leads to time-losing retreats. Kt — Q2 was by far better. 

(il) Very injudicious. He withdraws his stronghold in the adverse centre only to 
make it the mark of hostile Pawn attacks and to shut it up almo.st u.selessly on 
the K side. The right play was 20 Kt— Q2, and if 20 ... P x P; 21 Kt ((^2) x P, 
21 K— R sq. (obviously, if QxKt, White wins the Queen by Kt— B6 ch.); 22 
P — QB4, which he could well afford now, considering that he had a piece more 
at his disposal for a wing attack by P— QKt4 and P— QR4, in case Black 
played Kt — Q-5, as Black's KB was out of play on the K side. 

(«) Almost anything was bad now, as Black threatened P — KtS, followed by 
PxPorP— B6. 

(/) The sacrifice of a Pawn, to which this amounts, gives him only temporary 
relief. 

{g) Of course, Black provides at once against the adverse intended sally by P x P 

GUN8BEBQ 8 GAMEa 

123 

attacking the Knight, and this cuts off all prospects for White of recovering 
his Pawn. 

(/i) White's game is broken up anyhow, and perhaps this gave him the best chance 

of prolonging resistance at the cost of two Pawns. 
(0 A pretty point. If 87 Q— K2, 87 P— B6; 88 Kt x P, 88 Q x Kt ch., and mates 

by RxP. 

{J; Practically deciding the game. 
(k) A more artful finish than Q x Kt. 

Game No. 93. 

Played in the first round, April 13th. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White 

I. Gunsberg. 

IP— Q4 
2P— K3 
3KK1H-B3 
4B— Q3 
5P— QKt3 
6 0—0 
7PxP 
8 P— B3 (b) 
9QK1^-Q2 

10 Ki^K5 

11 K— E sq. 

12 QKt— B4 (d) 

Black 
J. W. Baird. 

P-Q4 
P— K3 
KKt— B3 
P— QB4 
Kfc— QB3 
PxP(a) 
B— K2 
0—0 
B— Q2 
Q— Kt3 
KtxP(c) 
PxKt 

13KtxQBP 
14 PxKt 
15Q— K2 
16B— K3 
17 QR— QB sq. 
18QxB 
19 P— KB4 
2011— KB3 

21 QR— KB sq. 

22 P— KB5 
23KtxP 
24PxQ 
25 PxKt 
26BxP 
27PxR 

Q— B2 (c) 
B-B3 (/) 
KR— Qsq. 
B— K5 
BxB 
B— Q3 
Q— K2 
QR— QB sq. 
B-^Kt5(,) 

QxKt 
RxQ 

QBr-K sq. (h) 
RxR 
PxP 

{a) The exchange of Pawns is not to be recommended until White has also 
advanced P— QB4, when both Pawns may be exchanged, with an even game. 
(6) Irregular and indifferent. 

(c) Very good play. Black isolates the adverse Q centre Pawn and obtains the 
better position by this clever coup. 

(d) Best. If 12 P X Kt, 12 Q x P, and recovers his piece, with two Pawns ahead. 

(e) 18. . .Q — B4 would have been bad, for after 14 P x Kt he could not capture the 
QP on account of the rejoinder B x P ch. 

(/) Here and later on Black ought to have played Kt— Q4, followed by KB— KB3, 
which would have exercised great pressure against White's weak point in the 
Q centre. 

(^) B — Kt sq. was the right play here and would have left him considerable 
advantage in position, for it would have stopped the only attack that White 
could avail himself of as a compensation for his weak centre, namely, the 
advance of P — B5 that follows. 

(7«)25...B— B4; 26BxB, 26RxR; 27PxR, 27RxB gave him much better 
chances for a draw. 

124 

OUNSBEBO S GAMES. 

28B Q4 

Br-K7 

29BxP 

KxP 

30 R— QB sq. 

K^Rsq. 

31R-B7 

P— Kt3 

32Br-B4 

B B4 

33E— Kt4ch.(i 

0 K.— B sq. 

34R— KR4 

B— K2 

35BxBcL 

KxB 

36R— Re 

II-R4 0") 

37KxP 

RxP 

38K— Kt2 

Resigns, (k) 

(j) We believe the following line of play ■would have made more sure of an easy 

victory: 33 P— Kt4, 83 8—^3; 34 k— Q4, 34 B— B2; 35 R— Q7, 35 H— Bo; 

SOB— Q4, 36R— Ktsq.; 87P-Kto, followed by P— B6, threatening BxP. 

etc. 
U) The QKtP was the key to his position if he had any hope of drawing, and it 

was imperative to defend the same with the Rook. 
(k) Black chivalrously resigns, and, no doubt, his game was lost, especially when 

fighting against such a strong master. He could have made, however, a long 

struggle of it if he had chosen. 

Game No. 94. 

Played in the second round, May 14th. 

QUEEN'S FIANCHETTO. 

White 
J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2P— Q4 
3B— Q3 
4Kt— K2 
5 0—0 
6B— K3 
7 P— QB3 
8Q— Q2 
9B— R6 

10 Kt— R3 

11 QR— B sq. 
12P— K5 
l3Ktr-B2(a) 
14BxBP 

15 Kt^Kt 3 
16BxB 
17 Kt-K3 
18Kt-Kt4 
19 KEt— K sq. 

Black 
I. Gunsljerg. 

P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— Kt3 
B— Kt2 
P— K3 
Kt— K2 
0—0 
P— Q3 
P— QB4 
QKt-B3 
P-Q4 
P— R3 
P— B5 
PxB 

Kt— QKt sq. 
KxB 
P— QKt4 
Kt^Kt sq. 
Kt-Q2 

20P— B4 
21PxPe.p. ch. 

22 Kt— B2 

23 Kt— R3 

24 K— R sq. 
25R^K2 

26 QR— K sq. 

27 P— R3 

28 Ktr-K4 

29 K— Kt sq. (6) 

30 K1^Q6 

31 Kt— B2 

32 QKt— K4 
33KtxKt 

34 Q— B2 

35 P— KKt 3 

36 R— KB sq. 
37RxQ 
38RxB 

39 R— KB sq. (d) 
40KxR 
Resigns. 

P-^B4 
KKtxP 
Q— Kt3 
QR^K sq. 
Kfr— Kt6 
B-Q4 
P— R3 
Q— Qsq. 
Q-R5 
KK<^B3 
R— QKt sq. 
R— Kt3 
KtxKt 
QxBP(c) 
Kt— B3 
Q-B6 
BxKt 
BxQ 
K1^Q4 
RxRoh. 
Kt— K6 ch. 

(a) White's development was so far unexceptional, and he had rather the better 
position, which promised even more if he had played now ISBxB, ISKxB; 

GUMSBEKO's QAMES. 

126 

14 P— KB4,andif 14...P-KB4; 15 Px Pen pass, cb., 15RxP; 16P— KKt4. 
The unfortunate blunder in the text leaves his game at once hopeless, with a. 
piece behind, against such un opponent. 
(6) In order to utilize the QKt, which he cannot do at once, as Black would then 
1)6 at liberty to capture the KEt with the Queen, White's KtP being pinned 
by the Bishop. 

(c) There is hardly anything further noteworthy in the game, as Black naturally 
ends the adverse stubborn resistance by simplifying matters. 

(d) Of course, a final blunder. 

Game No. 95. 

Played in the first round, April lltL 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White 
I. Gunsberg. 

IP— Q4 
2P— K4 
3B— Q3 
4 KKtr-B3 (a) 
50— O 
6P— B3 
7B— K3 
8Q— B2 

Black 

H. E. Bird. 

P— K3 
P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— Kt3 
B— Kt2 
P— KE4(6) 
P— Q3 
Kt-^2 

9QKt— Q2 
lOQIU-KBq. 
IIP— KE3 
12 P— K5 
13PxP 
UB— K4 
15BxBch. 
16RxB 
17 Q— K4 ch. 
18P— B4 
19 R— R3 ch. 

Q— K2 

P— R5 

B— KR3 

PxP 

0—0—0 

BxB(K6)(c) 

KxB 

K—BS{d) 
Kt— B4 (e) 

(a) Not a good post for the Knight in this opening, as it is mo.stly of great 
importance to support the K centre by P — KB8, which square is now blocked 
for that Pawn. 

(6) At this point Black might have utilized White's objectionable 4th move by 
6 . . . P— KB4. If 7 P >« P, 7 KtP x P, with the superior game. Or if 7 P— K5, 
7 Kt— R8, again with the better position. Finally, if 7 QKt— Qa, 7 KKt— B3, 
followed soon by O — O, and we prefer Black's game. The move in the text is 
weak. 

(c) The adverse attack is greatly strengthened by this exchange. Kt — QB4 was 
by far better. 

(d) His game was bad even if he had made the best move at his disposal, name!}', 
17...K— Bsq., whereupon, after 18 Q— R8ch., 18 Kt— Ktso.; 19 Kt— Q4, 
White would have won a Pawn at least, with a fine game ; but the move in the 
text is a curious blunder that confines the King in a mating net. 

(«) If 18 P— QKt4, his only other alternative, 19 Q— B6 ch., followed by R— R3 
ch., wins equally. 

126 

OITNSBEBO 8 OAUES. 

Game No. 96. 

Played in the second round, May 11th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 

H. E. Bird. 

IP— KB4 
2P— K4 
3P— Q3 
4KKt— B3 
6P— K5 
6B— K2 
7P— B3 
8P— QE3 
9P— QKt4 

lOP— Kt6 

IIP— B4 

12P— QR4 

13Kt— R3 

14 Kt-B2 

15BxB 

16P— Kt3(&) 

17PxKt 

18K— Q2 

19 K— K2 

20 K— B sq. 
21K— Kt2(c) 
22 Q— K sq. 
23KxKt 
24K— K2 

25 K— B sq. 

26 K— Kt sq. 
27Kt-R3 
28B-QR2 
29 Q— B sq. 
30R— KB2 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. 

P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— K3 
P-Q4 
P— QB4 
QKt— B3 
Er— Bsq. 
•P— Kfc3 
P— Q5 
QKt— K2 
Kt— B4 
KKt— R3 
Kfr-Kt6 
BxKt 

Q— R5 ch. (a) 
KtxKtP 
QxPch. 
QxPch. 
QxPch. 
Kt— R7 ch. 
B— Q3 
KtxB 
Q— B4 ch. 
Q— Kt5ch. 
Q— B6 ch. 
QxP 
P— KB4 
P— R5 
Q— QKt6 
Q— KtOch. 

31R— Kt2 
32 Kt— Kt sq. 
33B— Kt5 
34Kt-Q2 

36 K— B2 (d) 
36Q— K2 

37 Kt— K4 
38KxQ 

39 Kt— B6 ch. 
40Kt— Kt4 

41 Kt— B2 (e) 

42 B— B sq. 

43 K— B3 
44Kt— K3 
45R— K2 
46Kt— KtSch. 
47K— Kt2 

48 R— B sq. 

49 Kt— B3 

50 K— R sq. 

51 B— Kt 2 

52 R— Q sq. 

53 B— R sq. 
54KtxRP 
65 K— Kt sq. 
56RxR 
57KxB 
58K— Kt3 
69K— Kt4 
60 R— K sq. 
61K— B3 

62 Resigns. 

Q— QB6 
Q— QKt6 
P— R6 
P— R7 ch. 
Q— B7 
R— R6 
QxQch. 
B— B2 
K— B sq. 
P— B4 
R— QR6 
R— R7 ch. 
K— B2 
RxP 
P— K4 
K— B3 
P— K5 
P— K6 
R— KRsq. 
RxP(/) 
R— Ksq. 

Rr-K6 

P— Kt4 
R— KR6 
RxKt 
BxRch. 
R— B7 ch. 
P— B5 ch. 
P— K7 
R— R7 
K— B4 

(a) The outcome of the early manoeuvring on both sides, which was very irregular, 

especially on White's part, is that the latter's pieces are much confined and his 

Pawns are in a weak position, which gives Black an opportunity for institutiu;^ 

a vehement attack at the cost of a piece, for which he obtains no less than 

. four Pawns. 

(6) Best. If 16 K— Q2, 16 Kt x RP would win. 

(c) A much better plan was 31 R x Kt, 21 Q x R; 32 P — R5, with good prospects 
of a strong counter-attack on the Q side. 

(d) It was much better to get rid of the adverse dangerous passed Pawn by giving 
up the exchange. After 86 KR x P, a.? B x R ch. ; 86 R x B, 36 Q— Kt 6 ch. -, 

OUNBBEBO S OAJIES. 

127 

37 ''fi, — Kt S, White had raore legitimate hopes of making a good fight against 

thei adverse superiority of Pawns. 
(*) If .Ul Ktx P, 41 K— B2, followed by QR— KB sq., would soon win with ease. 
(/^ X position of the rarest curiosity. Black has seven Pawns for the piece. Of 

course, he can hardly help winning now. 

Game' No. 97. 

Played in the first rbimd, April 8th. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt-B3 

3P— QR3(a) 

4P— Q4 

5KtxP 

6B— K3 

7 Ktr-QB3 

8B— QKt6 

9PxP 

10QKtxKKt(d) 
llBxKt 

12 0--0 

13 R— K sq. 
14P— QB3 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— KKt3(6) 
PxP 
B— Kt2 
KKt— K2 
P-Q4 
0—0 (c) 
KtxP 
QxKt 
PxB 
B-QR3 
KR— Q8q.(e) 
Q-B5 

15Q— B3 

16 Q— Kt3 

17 K<^B3 

18 QR— Q sq. 
19RxR 
20BxP(o) 
21B— Kt8(A) 
22Q— R3 
23P— B4 
24BxP 
26B— R6 
26BxR 

27 PxB 
28K— Kt2 
29Q— R4 

30 Q— Q8 ch. 

31 Q— B7 cL 

B— Kt2 
E— Q2 
P— B3(/) 
QB^-Qsq. 
RxR 
P— QB4 
Q— Kt6 
R-Q8(t-) 
P— B4 
BxKt 
RxRch. 
Q— Q8 
QxBch. 
BxP 
B— Q6 
K— Kt2 
K— R3 

(a) Mr. Gunsberg sometimes favored this indifferent move after both parties had 

brought out both Knights to their B8. He now adopts it earlier, and, in our 

opinion, throws the advantage of the first move away. 
(6) We think that Black may reply 8. . .Kt— B3, and if 4 Kt— B8, 4 B— B4; 5 P— 

QKt 4, 5 B — Q5, with a good game. 
(c) The offer of a Pawn rests on a deep and sound combination. 
(d)U lOKKtxQKt, lOPxKt; llKBxP, 11 Ktx B; 12PxKt (if laQxQ, 13 

Kt X BP ch., etc.), 12. . .R — QKt sq., with the superior game. 
(e) We should have preferred Black's game if be had now played QR — Kt sq. Wo 

consider this and Black's next move weak. 
(/) Almost compulsory, but no doubt disadvantageous, as it blocks out the Bishop 

from his most important range. 
{ff) This was an error. He had the best of the position and could have improved 

it by 20 Kt— Q2, 20 Q— Q6 (or 20. . .Q— QR5; 21 B— Q4, threatening Kt^K4, 

etc.); 21 Kt— Kt8, 21 KB— B sq.; 22 Kt— R5, 22 B— R sq.; 23 B— Q4, etc. 
(A) This makes matters worse. Mr. Gunsberg afterward pointed out that he 

might have probably released himself by advancing P — QR4. 
(») Black takes advantage of the situation with prompt vigor. Of course, he 

threatens now B x Kt 

128 

OUMSBEBO 8 GAMES. 

32 Q— Kt 3 

33 P— QB4 

34 Q— R4 ch. 

35 P— R5 

36 P— R6 

37 Q— KB4 (k) 

38 Q— B7 ch. 
39QxBP 
40Q— B8ch. 

41 Q— Q8 

42 Q— B7 

Q— K7 
QxQBP 
K— Kt2 
Q-K7 

QxRP 
K— R3 
Q— K3 

B— Kt2(0 

Q— e:b3 

Q— K4 

43 Q— B4 

44 Q— B sq. ch. 
45Q— B7 
46Q-^7 

47 P— B4 

48 Q— QB7 

49 K— B sq. 
50K— Kt2 

51 Q— B sq. 

52 K— R sq. 

53 Resigns. 

Q-Q5 
K— R4 
Q-K4 
P^R3 
Q— Q5 
Q— K5 ch. 
Q— Q6 ch. 
B— Q5 
Q-K7 
Q— B6 ch. 

(J) It required great courage and foresight on Black's part to let the apparently 
dangerous hostile Pawn advance so far, especially as White has now the 
formidably-looking Q — QR4 at his disposal. 

(ft) It wUl now be easUy seen that if 36 Q— QR4, 36 B— Q5; 87 P— R7, 87 Qx P 
ch.; 88 K— R8, 88 QxBP ch.; 39 K— R4, 39 B— B3 ch., and wins. But, 
evidently. Mr. Blackbume must have foreseen this several moves back, and the 
highest credit is due to him for devising this clever i-esource. 

(I) K — R4 was preferable, but Black anyhow wins now without difficulty. 

Game No. 98. 

Played in the second round, May 7th. 
QUEEN'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

Wliife 

Black 

J. H. Blackbume. I. Gunsberg. 

IP— Q4 
2P— QB4 
3P— K3 
4K1^-QB3 
5Kt-B3 

6 B— Q2 (b) 

7 QR— B sq. 

8 Q— B2 (c) 

9 P— KR3 ((/) 
lOPxP(e) 

11 B— Q3 

12 0—0 

13 B— B5 

14 B— Q3 

15 Q-R4 (/) 

16 B— Kt sq. (g) 

17 Q— Q sq. 

18 Kt— R2 

P-Q4 
P— QB3 (a) 
Kt— B3 
P— K3 
P— QKt3 
B— Q3 
0—0 
B— Kt2 
QKt— Q2 
KPxP 
R^Ksq. 
R— QB sq. 
P— Kt3 
P— B4 
P— B5 
P— QR3 
P— QKt4 
P— Kt5 

19 K<^K2 
20BxKt 
21 P— B4 
22KtxP 
23 Q— K sq. 
24Q— R4 
25KtxQ 
26R— B6 

27 QRr— KB sq. 

28 KR^B2 

29 Kt (R4)— B3 

30 R— K sq. 
31Kt-B4 
32Kt— Kt5 

33 R—QB sq. 

34 Kir-BS- 
35PxB 
36RxB 

37 P— R3 (k) 
38KtPxBP 
39BPxP(w) 

Kt— K5 

PxB 

P X P en pass. 

P— QR4 

Q— K2 

QxQW 

Kt— Kt3 (0 
B— B2 
R— K2 
B— K5 
B-Q6 
QR^K sq. 
B— K5 
B— B3 
P— R3 
KBxKt 

BxKtO") 
P— B4 
P— B6 (I) 
Kt— B5 
KtxB 

gunsbebg'b games. 129 

40R-Q3 Kt— K5 50 P— R4 Kt^B6 

41PxP(«) R— Esq. 51P— Kt4 PxP 

42Br— B6 K— B2 52 PxP Kt— K7 ch. 

43P— Re R— K3 53K— B2 KtxP 

44P— Q5 RxR 54P— R5 Ki^K3 

45PxR RxP 55P— R6 RxP(») 

46P— B7 R— B3 56 P— R7 R— B7 cL 

47I^_Q7ch. K— K3 57K— Kt3 R— QR7 

48Rr— Kt7 K— B3 58R— QK:t7 R— R6 ch. 

49Rr— Q7 R— B4(o) 59 K— B2 K— Kt4 

(a) At least a valoable move in the development is lost by adopting this defence. 

(6) We would in this situation rapidly bring out B — Q8, followed by O — O, in 
order to form an attack in the centre by P — K4. QR and QB may then be 
better employed elsewhere than they are in the early part of this game. 

(c) If done with the object of playing P — K4 sooner or later this was good play, 
but not for the plan which he pursues. 

id) This is of no use. 

(e) And this is absolutely bad. The opponent obtains complete command of the 
centre thereby, and on the Q side his position is also superior already. P — K4 
was still the right play. 

(/) Also very weak and compromising. It was necessary to exchange Pawns in 
order to make their array on the Q wing less powerful. Anyhow, if he did 
not chose to exchange, Q — Q sq. was better, and time is thrown away 
additionally by this move. 

(^) If Q X RP, Black would play 16 . . . B— B8 and White's Queen had no escape. 

(h) Black has systematically conducted the attack on the Q side quite heedless of 
the adverse attempt at a counter-demonstration against his King. As his 
opponent is now reduced to an offer of exchangmg Queens, he promptly 
accepts the challenge, having the superiority of Pawns on the Q side, with two 
powerful Bishops to support his attack on that wing, which is bound to 
succeed ultimately. The game is conducted by Mr. Gunsberg in remarkably 
fine style of modern art. 

(0 Much better was B— K5 or — QR8. 

(j ) We think that Black impetuously exchanged his two Bishops, that might have 
yielded him greater winning facilities, for the two Knights, which could not 
much impede his progress. 

(k) An error, of which the adversary avails himself with profound ingenuitv. He 
ought to have reserved this strong move, which would have secured nim an 
even game, at least, if he had first played KR — KB2, protecting his Bishop. 

{I) Fine and very deep play. 

(m) He was bound to give up the piece, for if either Rook protected the Bishop, 
the reply P — Kt 6 would win in a few moves. The play adopted gave him 
still fair drawing chances. 

(n) Which, however, he now throws away. P — Kt 5 would have made it much 
more difficult for Black to win. 

(o) Black masters this extremely difiicult position in the most skilful manner. He 
has to remove his Rook in order to allow his Knight to manoeuvre. If Kt — B6 
at once, White would answer R— Q6 ch. and win. 

(p) Black has admirably picked up, one by one, the adverse most dangerous 
Pawns, and it is quite a study, even for adepts, to follow his end play. 

130 

GUN8BEBG 8 GAMES. 

60E— KB7 

Kt-Q5 {q) 

74R-Kt4ch. 

R-B5 

61 R— QB7 (r) 

K— B5 

75R-Kt3 

Kt-K5 

62R— B4 

R— R7 ch. 

76R^Kt4 

P— Kt4 

63 K— K sq. 

K— K5 , 

77R-Kt3 

R— B7 cb. 

64Er-B7 

K— K6 

78 K— Kt sq. 

R— B6 

65R-B3ch. 

K— B5 

79R-Kt4 

K— B5 

66B^B4 

K— K4 

80R^R4 

P— Kt 5 

67R-B7 

K— B3 

81K— Kt2 

R— B7 cli. 

68E^R7 

Kt— Kt4 

82 K— Kt sq. 

R-QB7 

69RxP 

RxP 

83 R— R sq. 

K— B6 

70 K— B2 

K— Kt4 

84 R— B sq. ch. 

R B7 

71 E^R sq. 

KxP 

85 R— R sq. 

R— Kt 7 ch, 

72 R— QKt sq. 

R-B2 oil. 

86 Resigns. 

73K— Kt2 

Kt— B6 

(q) His mating efforts only lead to prolongation. The simplest way to end mat- 
ters was 60...Kt— Kfo; 61 K— K s(i., 61 R^R7, followed by Kt— Q4 ami 
Kt — KB3, winning the KKtP, and the two passed Pawns could not be stopped. 

(r) Threatening to win the Knight by R — B4, sliould Black capture the Pawn. Of 
course Black was bound to win the game even then, but a very long fight 
could have been made of it. No further comment is necessary, excepting 
that White offers very stubborn resistance in a hopelessly lost case. 

Game No. 99. 

Played in the first round, April 1st. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 
I. Qunsberg. 

IP— K4 
2 KKlr-B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q3 
5P— B3 
6Q— K2 
7 QKt— Q2 
8B— Kt3 
9RPxB 

10 0—0 

IIP— R3 

12 P— QKt 4 

13 Kt— R4 (h) 

14 QKt-B3 
15B— Kt5 

Black 

16 K— R2 

C. F. Burille. 

17P— Kt4 
18 Kt— B5 

P— K4 

lOKtxKt 

QKt— B3 

20 Kt— R4 

B— B4 

21 P— KB4 

P Q3 

22 RxP 

Kt-B3 

23R-B3 

Q-K2 

24B— K3 

B K3 

25PxP 

BxB(a) 

26 K— Kt sq. 

Kt— KKt5 

27 P— Q4 

0-0 

28 Kt— Kt2 

K<^B3 

29 P— KKt 5 (d) 

B— Kt3 

30 P QB4(e) 

Q-Q2 (c) 

31P-B5 

Kt-K2 

32 Q-Q3 (/) 

Q— K3 

33 P— KR4 

K— R sq. 
P— B3 
P— Kt3 
QxKt 
Q— K3 
PxP 

Kt— Kt so. 
P— B3 
P-Q4 
Q— K4 ch. 
QR^K sq. 
QxP(Q4) 
R— K5 
P— KB4 
Q-Q sq. 
B— B2 
P— QR3 

Klr-K2 

aUNSBEBO 8 GAMES. 

131 

34 QR— KB sq. 
35R— R3 
36B— Q2 
37P— R5 
38PxP 
39E^E6 
40Q— R3 
41 R— K sq. 
42KtxR 
43 Q— KB3 
44PxRch. 
45 K— B sq. 
46K— B2 
47 K— B sq. 

R— Ksq. 
Kt— Q4 
K— Kt2 
Q— K2 
PxP 

R— KR sq. 
Q-K8q.(gr)' 
RxRch. 
Kt— B5 (h) 
RxR 
K— R2 
Kt— Q4 
Kt— B3 
Q-K5 

48 Q— QKt 3 

49 Kt— B3 
50BxB 

51 Q-Q3 

52 K— B2 
53Q— K2 
54Q— K6 

56 P-Q5 0) 
56QxKt 

57 K— Kt sq. 

58 Q— K7 

59 K— B2 

60 K— Kt sq. 

61 Resigns. 

Kt— Q4 
B— B5 
QxB 
KxP 
P— KKt4 
Kt— B3 
K— R4 (i) 
K— Kt5(ik) 
QxKtch. 
QxP 
Q— Q8 ch. 
Q— Q7 ch. 
K-B6(0 

(a) The opponent gets now a slight advantage with his open QR file and gains 
time by attacking the Bishop with his QKtP. 

(b) We would have preferred P — Kt 5 first, so as to drive back the QKt into the 
first row. White could then proceed with Kt — QB4 or with Kt— KR4, as in 
the text. 

(e) With correct perception of the exigencies of the situation, Black makes room 
at K2 for his QKt, but Q — K8 was better for the purpose and would have 
saved time. 

(d) The game has been evenly played on both sides up to this, which we consider 
weak. It gives Black a strong passed Pawn, wlulst advancing his own KtP 
too far without sufficient support 

(e) And by this advance he destroys the fightine power of his Q wing, and his 
four Pawns on that side are worth no more than the adverse three, for he is 
lx>und on the next move to push the BP still further, and Black thus obtains a 
fine post for his Knight at Q4, while White's QP and QKtP remain weak. 

(/) If 32 R X P, 32 P— B.5; 83 Q— Q8, 83 R x B, and wins. 

(y) Black's parrying off the attack shows science and strength. 

(h) With this skilful move Black turns the game decidedly in his favor. 

(0 Black masters the situation with fine judgment. This was the simplest and 
most efficient plan, especially with the view of avoiding perpetual check. 

U) If 55 Q X Kt, 55 K— Kt 5; 66 Q x P ch., 56 Q x Q; 57 Kt x Q, 57 K x Kt, and 
after advancing the BP, Black will cross over with his King to the Q side, 
winning easily. 

(k) Black does not swerve from his victorious path. Had he taken the Pawn 
with the Knight, White would have answered K — Kt2, and a draw was likely 
to occur. 

(t) Terminating a well-played game in excellent style. 

132 

GUNSB^G 8 GAMES. 

Game No. 100. 

Played in the second round, April 29th. 

DOUBLE FIANCHETTO. 

While 

C. F. Burille. 

IP— K4 
2P-Q4 
3B— Q3 
4B— K3 

5 P— QB3 

6 QKt— Q2 

7 Kt— K2 

8 0—0 

9 P— B3 (a) 

10 P— K5 (h) 

11 B— KB2 

12 B^K sq. {d) 
13BxKt 

14 K— R sq. 

15 K<^QB4 

16 E— KB sq. 
17B— K4 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. 

P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— K3 
KKt— K2 
0-0 
P— KB4 
QKt^B3 
Kt— Q4 
B— KR3 (c) 
Kt— K6 
BxBch. 
Q— R6 
B— B7 (e) 
P-B6(/) 
QBr-QKt sq. 

18 Q— B2 (g) 

19 Ktr-Q2 

20 QKt— QKt 3 
21PxP(t) 

22 P— Q6 

23BxPch. 

24BxKt(/) 

25 QK1^Q4 

26 P-QR4 
27PxP 
28R— R7(A) 

29 Q— Q sq. 

30 Kt— Kt sq. (re) 

31 Br— R sq. 
32QxB 

33 QK1^K2 

34KtxB 

35QxP 

36 Resigns. ' 

P— QKt4 
B— K6 
P— Q3 (h) 
I xP 
PxP 
K— R sq. 
BxB 
B— Q4 
P— QR3 
PxP 

QR-Ksq. (0 
R— K4(rH) 
B— B5(o) 
BxR 
KR— K sq. 
BxKt 
R^K8 
Q-B7 

(a) White has opened and developed his game in the true spirit of the modern 

style, which prescribes the guanling of the centre against the action of the two 

Bishops. 
(6) But White now departs at once, without the least necessity, from the leading 

idea that ought to govern his play, and he allows the adverse Knight entrance 

by this advance. 

(c) Black manceuvres energetically and judiciously against the weak adverse 
point at K3. 

(d) The best way to equalize matters was 12 Kt— QB4, 12 P— QKt4; 13 Kt— QR3, 
13 Kt— K6; 14 B X Kt, 14 B x B ch. ; 15 K— R sq., 15 P— QR3; 16 Kt— B2, 16 
KB— KR3; 17 P— KB4, etc. 

(e) We question this move, which shuts out his Bishop from re-entrance on the K 
side and confines the same practically at K6, for he cannot stop long at his 
present post. 

(/) This advance allows White's Bishop to enter at K4 and thus to neutralize the 
action of his own QB against the K side, but it was only the forced sequence 
of his last move. If Tie played P— QKt4, White would reply Kt— QR3, 
followed by Kt— QB2. 

{g) Which blocks his best square for the QKt that ought to have retreated at once 
to R3, with the view of occupying the same. 

(h) His centre becomes weak by this advance. 

(0 Much stronger was 21 P— QR4, 21 P— QR3; 22 PxP, 22 PxP; 23 Kt— R5, 
etc. 

(J) The exchange releases the adverse King and deprives him of all chance of 
attack. Blank's two Bishops assert themselves powerfully hence. 

OUNSBEBa S GAMES. 

133 

(A) Much better was Q — Q sq. at once, in order to make room for Ktr— B2. 

(/} And now Black assumes the offensive, which is carried through to the end 

with vigor and ingenuity, 
(m) Threatening 30. . .R x P ch., followed by Rr--R4 mate. 

(«) p— B[B3 was his best defence that might have prolonged the fight, at any rate. 
(p) A masterstroke that wins in a few moves. 

Game No. 101. 

Played in the first round, March 25th. 

KING'S BISHOP'S OPENING. 

White 

Black 

I. Ounsberg. 

A. Bni 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2B— B4 

KKt— B3 

3Q— K2 

K<r-B3 

4 KKt— B3 

B-B4 

5 Kt— Kt6 (a) 

P-Q4(6) 

6PxP 

KtxP 

7P Q3 

0—0 

8 Kt— QB3 

K<^B3 

9 QKt— K4 

K^-Q5 

10 Q-Q sq. 

B-Kt3 

11 P-QB3 

K<r-B4 

12Q— Kt3 

Q— K2 

13B-Q2 

KtxKt 

14KtxKt 

15 0—0—0 

16 KtxKt 
17P— B4 

18 QR— K sq. 
IQQxQsq. 
20Q— B3 
21 Q— Kt3 
22B— Kt3 
23 KB— B sq. 
24B— B2 
25 P— QR3 
26Q— R3 
27PxP 

K— Esq. 
K*^Q3 
PxKt 
P— B3 
Q— QB2 
B— Q2 
B— B3 

QB^K sq. (c) 
P-QR4 
P— R5 
B— R2 
P— QKt4 
B-Q4 
QPxP 

Drawn by nmtnal consent (d) 

(a) A premature attack that ought to have been disadvantageous to White. 

(6) He could not play 5 0—0, on account of 6 Kt x P, 6 R x Kt; 7 B x K ch., 7 
KxB; 8 Q — B4 ch., winning the exchange. But, nevertheless, the move in 
the text was not the best, for it subjects him to a considerable attack for a 
long time, whereas 5. . .Kt— Q5; 6 Q— Q sq. (if 6 Bx P ch., 6 K— B sq.; 7 (4— 
B4, 7 Q— K2, threatening P-jQKt4, as well as P— KR8, and ought to win), 
6. . .0 — O, and Black will obtain the superior development. 

(c) Both parties have alternately attacked and defended with great caution and 
good judgment, but we believe that here 21. . .P— Q4; 22 B— Kt8, 22 P- K5 
was more promising for Black, who could at once form a strong centre Pawn, 
whereas White could not have asserted his superiority of Pawns on the (j 
wing for a very long time, having Castled on that side. 

(<f) The game is about even in position and forces, but, for all that, we think that 
at such a stage of the game, where the issue seems still quite uncertain, a draw 
by mutual consent between two favorites for high honors is an unsatisfactory 
result 

134 

GUNSBERG S GAMES. 

Game No. 102. 

Played in the second round, April 18tli. 

BUY 

LOPKTi. 

White 

Black 

11 Kt— B3 

Kt-K4(</) 

A. Bum. 

I. Gunsberg. 

12 R— K sq. 
13Q— Q4 

Kt— B2 
R— K sq. (e) 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

URxR'ch. 

QxR 

2 KKt-B3 

QKt-B3 , 
Kt— B3 

15 B^K sq. 

Kt— K4 

3B— Kt5 

16 Kt— Q2 (/) 

P-QR3 (gr) 

4 0—0 

KfcxP 

17 P— KB4 

Q— KBsq. 

5P Q4 

Kt— Q3 (a) 

18 KKt-K4 

Kt-B2 

6PxP(6) 
7P— QR4 

KtxB 

19 Kt-Q5 (/*) 

K— R sq. 

Kt— Q3 

20 KtxB 

KtxKt 

8B— Kto 

P— B3 

21KtxQBP(t-) 

Kt— B4 

9PxKt 

BxP(c) 

22Q— B2 

Resigns. 0") 

lOB— E4 

0-0 

(a) The authorized move is I^ — K2 at this point. The text move is premature. 
(6) First played by Mr. J. W. Baird (see Inteimatioiial Chess Magaziiie, Vol. III. , 

January, 1887, p. 25). We do not approve of this sacrifice of a Pawn, especiallv 

as White may obtain a good game by 6 B x Kt, 6 KtP x B; 7 P x P, 7 Kt>— Kt 2 ; 

8 B— Kt 5, 8 B— K2; 9 B x B, 9 Q x B; 10 R— K sq., etc. 
(c) He could not well capture the Bishop on account of 12 R — K sq. ch., 12 K — 

B2; 13 Q— Q5ch., 13 K— Kt3; 14 PxP, 14 Q— B3; 15 Kt— B3, with an 

excellent attack; for if 15...B— K2; 16RxB, 16 QxR (or 16...KtxR; 17 

Kt-K5 ch., 17 K— R3, best [if 17. . .K— R4; 18 Q— Q sq. ch. and wins] ; 18 

Kt— B7 ch., and ought to win); 17 R— K sq., 17 Q— B3; 18 Kt— K4, with a 

fine game. 
(c?)B — K2orP— KKt4 were quite good enough and led to less complications, 

with a Pawn plus. 
(e) An ill-judged offer of an exchange, whereby he deprives himself of 

important defensive piece and brings the adverse QR into activity. 
(/) An excellent move, which practically decides the game. 
(^) There was hardly anything better. If,, for instance, 16...Q— Bsq 

Kt5, 17Kt— B2; 18 KtxB, 18 KtxKt; 19 B— Kt3, 19Kt— Ksq.; 

ch., 20 K— R sq.; 21 Q— K4, etc. 
{h) In very vigorous style. 
{%) Threatening also Q x Kt 
U) Black may get two pieces for the Queen by 22. . .Kt x B; 28 R— K8, 28 Q x R; 

24 Kt X Q, but then he cannot save the loss of another piece, for if 24. . .Kt — 

B4; 25 Kt— B7, 25 R— Kt sq.; 26 Q— R7, and wins. 

ail 

; 17 Kt— 
20Q— Q5 

QUNSBEBO S GAMES. 

135 

Game No. 108. 

Played in the first round, April ISth. 

FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 
L tiunsberg. 

IP— K4 

2P— Q4 

3 QKt— B3 

4KtxP 

5K£t— B3 

6B— Q3 

70-0 

8BxKt 

9B— Q3 
10 P— B4 
IIB— Ba 
12Q-Q3 
13 R— K sq. (c) 
UP— QR3 
15Q— B3 
16PxP 
17P— R3(d) 

18 P— QKt 4 

19 K^-Q4 
20B— Q3 
21 Q— Kt 3 

Black 
K Delmar. 

P— K3 
P— Q4 
PxP 

P— KR3 (o) 
KKt— B3 
QKt— Q2 
KtxKt 
Kt— B3 
B-Q3 
P— B3(6) 
P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
Q— B2 
0—0—0 
P— B4 
BxP 
K— Kt sq. 
B^-Q3 
R— QB sq. 
K<^Q4(e) 
Kt— B5 

22 B— B sq. 
23P— B6(/) 
24KxB 
25B— Kt2(/0 
26Kt— Kt5 
27 P— B6 (0 

B— R3 
BxB 

B-K4(y) 
Kt— Kt3 
Q-Q2 
QxP 

Position after White's 27th move 

P— B6 

Black— E. Delmar. 

White — I. Gunsberg. 

(a) This and the last move were opposed to recognized principles of development. 
(6) His QB becomes still more blocked by this advance. 

(c) Black was already weak enough on the K side, and a.s he evidently intended 
O — O — O, a preparation for an attack by P— QR3, followed byP— QKt 4, wa.s 
more in order. 

(d) Hardly necessary, and therefore loss of time. 17 P~QKt4, 17 B— Q3; 18 B— 
Kt 2, was safe enough, for if 18 . . . B x Kt; 19 Q x B, 19 B x P ch. ; 20 K— B stj. , 

. 20 B— Q3; 21 P— B.5, 21 PxP; 22 PxP, 28 KR— QB sq., with an excellent 
attack. 

(e) With this and the next move Black compromises his position, whereas he 
could have obtained here an excellent game by 20. . .P — K4; 21 Kt— B5 (if 21 
Kt — Kt.5, 21 Q — B3, threatening mate, followed by QxKt, winning); 21... 
Q— B3; 22 B— B sq., 22 B— Be, etc. 

(/) This profound and fine move initiates a series of equally deep masterstrokes 

which lead to the gain of a -piece. 
(g) Obviously, he could not capture the Pawn, and if B— K2, he lost a piece at 

once by the reply Kt— Kt 5, followed by B x Kt ch. 
(A) Threatening R x B, and if Q x R, then Kt — B6 ch., winning the Queen, 
(j) The decisive link in the chain of a masterljf combination. White wins a 

piece, which practically ends the game. See diagram. 

136 

OUN8BEBO 8 QAMBS. 

28BxBch. 

29RxKt 

30 Q— 114 

31R— K3 

32PxP 

33 K^-B3 

34PxP 

35 Q— R7 ch. 

36PxQch. 

37 P— QR4 

38 R— Q sq. 

39 Kt— KtB ch. 

KtxB 
P— B3 
P— QR4 
Q-Q2 
R— B4 
Q— Bsq. 
Q— Kt2 
QxQ 
KxP 
P— K4 
KR— QB sq. 
K— R3 

40R— K4 
41 R— QKt4 
42B^Kt2 
43 R— Kt sq. 
44RxR 
45Kt-Q6 
46 K— K2 
47R^Kt6 
48K— Q3 
49 K— B3 
50Kt— B4 

P— B4 
K— R4 
R— B8 
RxR(Kt8) 
KxP 
R— KBsq. 
R— B3 
P— Kt4 
R— Bsq. 
R— QRsq. 
Resigns. 

Game No. 104. 

Played in the second round. May 15th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

E. Delmar. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4 0—0 
5P— Q4 
6PxP 
7P— QR4 
BPxKt 
9 R— K sq. (6) 
lOR— R4(c) 

11 Kt— B3 

12 K<r-Q5 
13B— B4 
14PxB 
15BxKt 
16R— Kt4 
17KtxP(c) 
18Q— K2 

19 Rr-QB4 (/) 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt-B3 
KtxP 
Kt— Q3 
KtxB 
P— Q3 (a) 
KtxP 
B— Kt6 
B— K2 
O—Oid) 
R— Ksq. 
BxKt 
B— Kt4 
PxB 
R— K3 
R— Q3 
P— KR4 
R— Bsq. 

20QxP(«/) 

21 Q— K8 ch. 

22 QxQ 
23RxR 
24R— K7 
25P— Kt4 

26 K— Kt2 

27 P— QB4 
28RxBP 
29P— B4 
30K— Kt3 
SlRxRP 

32 K— B2 

33 K— K3 
34P— B5 

35 Rn-KB7 

36 K— B3 

37 K— K4 

38 K— Q5 
39RxR 
40K— K6 
41 Resigns. 

RxKt 
K— R2 
BxQ(A) 
BxR 
B— Kt3 
R^Q8 ch. 
R--Q7 
BxP 
P— Kt3 
B— B4 disch. 
BxP 
R— Q6 ch, 
R^Q5 
RxQBP 
K— R3 
B— B4 ch. 
R— B8 
R— K8 ch. 
R— K2 
BxR 
B— B3 

(a) In the present new variation Black ought not to maintain his Pawn plus with 
^reat comfort, and the line of play adopted by Mr. Gunsberg against Mr. Bum 
in the same form of opening, viz. : 7. . . Kt — Q3, is preferable. 

(b) By far more promising appears to us the continuation 9 Kt x Kt, 9 P x Kt; lO 
Q— K2, 10 B— Q3; 11 P— KB4, 11 P— KB8 (or 11 . . .Q— K2; 12 P x P, 12 Q x P ; 
13 QxQ, ISBxQ; 14 E— K sq., 14 P— KB3; 15 B—B4, recovering the Pawn , 
with the superior game); 12 Q— R5 ch., 12 P— Kt8; 13 Q— R6, etc. 

GUN8BERG 8 GAMES. 

137 

((OlOKtxKt, lOBxQ; 11 Kt— B6 disch., 11 B— K2; 12KtxQ, 12 BxP, would 
only increase Black's advantage. 

(//)ll...P— QB3; 12PxP, 12PxP; 18 B— B4, 13KtxBch.; 14 PxKt, 14 
B — K3 was, we think, the simplest way of maintaining bis advantage, whereas 
much trouble is now caused by tbe adverse Knight. 

(e) We cannot help opining that this clever coup had not been sufficiently taken 
into account by his opponent, for it seems to u^ sound if only rightly 
continued. 

(/) At this critical juncture White spoils a game that had been creditably con- 
ducted on his part, considering especially that he had been fighting against a 
great master, and that he had sacrificed a Pawn in the opening. The right 
play in this rarelv interesting and instructive position was 19 R— Kt 3, 19 R — 
B sq. (19. . .P— R5; 20 R— Kt2, 20 P— R6; 21 R— Kt 8 leads only to'a line of 
play similar to that of our main variation, without any difference in Black's 
favor, for the main point is that White should keep up the attack against the 
Bi.shop, which cannot be easily defended if Black wish to gain the Knight); 
20QxP, 20P— B3; 21 Q— K8 ch., 21QxQ; 22KtxQ, 22 R— Q7 (or 22... 
R— Q2; 23 P— KB4, and, obviously, if BxP, White wins by KtxBP ch.); 23 
Kt X KtP, 23 K X Kt; 24 P— KB4, with at least an even game. The move in 
the text loses. 

{ij) He might have saved the piece by 20 P— Kt 6, 20 R x P; 21 Kt— Kt 5, 21 R x R 
(of course, not 21...RxKt, on account of 22RxR, followed by QxR); 22 
Q X R, but then Black's attack bv R— KKt 8 or B— B5 would have been irre- 
sistibie*, besides that he remained, with two Pawns ahead. 

{7i) In the hands of a master like Mr. Gunsberg a piece was sure to win in the 
ending, and the game requires no further comment, though the further play 
will l>e interesting to students who are not experts. 

Game No. 105. 

Played in the first round, April 3d. 

GITOCO PIANO. 

White 

I. Gunsberg. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q3 

5B— K3(a) 

Block 

G. H. D. Gossip. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
BxB 

6PxB Ki^E4 

7B— Kt6cli.(6)P— QB3 

8B— E4 
9B— Kt3 

lOKPxKt 

110—0 

12 K<^B3 

13 Q— K sq. 

P— QKt4 
KtxB 

K1^K3(c) 
0-0 
K— E sq. 
P— E4 

(a) Usually the QKt is brought out first to B3 before opposing Bishops. 

(6) This diversion from the ordinary course in similar situations, namely, to 
retreat B — Kt3 at once or to develop QKt — Q2, is, if anything, slightly in 
Black's favor, for the latter aims at an attack on the Q wing, and WTiite's 
course of play, therefore, only aids his development of Pawns on that side. 

(<•) Very good and original. This placement of the Knight has its favorable 
aspects, as it neither obstructs the KBP nor shuts out the Queen from the K 
side even temporarily, and one or the other would be the case if this Knight 
had developed elsewhere. 

138 

OUNSBEBG B OAHE& 

14 K1^K2 

15 P— Q4 

16 Q-Q2 
17KPxP 

18 Kt— K sq. 

19 P— R3 
20PxKt 
21ExRch. 
22Kt^B4 
23Kt— R3 

24 P-Q5 (gr) 

25 Kt^B2 
26PxP 
27P— QKt3(A) 
28P— B4 
29PxP 

P— Kt3 (d) 
Kt— Kt5 
P— B4 
P— K5 (e) 
Q—R5 
BxP 
BxP 
RxR 
P— Kt4 
B-Q2(/) 
P— B4 
P— R5 
PxP 
B— Kt4 
B^Q2 
B— B4 

30R— Ktsq. 
31R^Kt7 
32 Q— Kt 2 
33P— Kt3 
34R— R7 

35 K<^Kt2 

36 Q— Kt 8 

37 Q— B7 

38 Kt-B4 
39KtxRP 
40Q— K7 

41 Q— K6 cli. 
42QxPcli. 

43 Q— B5 ch. 

44 K^-B6 ch. 

P— Kt5 
K— Kt sq. 
Q— Kt4 
B— B sq. 
P— R4 
R— B6 
R— Bsq. 
B— B4 
Q-R3 
Q— R sq. 
B— Kt3 
B— B2 
K— R2 
K— Ktsq. 
({) Resigns. 

(d) With the object, probably, of advancing P — KB4 and to retake with the KtP 
if White then exchanged Pawn.s. This would have been a good plan 
eventually, and so far from Black having anything to fear on the K side from 
breaking open his KKt file, he was likely to be the first to obtain an attack on 
that wing. 

(e) Black enters here on a high-spirited attack that on its true merits, as far as its 
inception and conduct for some time is concerned, deserved a better fate than 
was accorded to it. 

(/) Black has played remarkably well np to this after the sacrifice of the piece, 
but his calculations go astray here altogether. 28...BxKt; 24 PxB, 24 
QxP; 25 Kt— Kt2, 25 P— KR4, with the view of removing the Queen 
eventually to Kt 5 Jor Kt 6 and to advance the RP ultimately to R6, was the 
only right course, and we believe it would have secured Black a draw, with 
some winning chances. 

(g) White ought not to have given the opponent another opportunity of 
exchanging, and Kt — B2 at once was better. 

(h) White assumes the attack, and his skill being supported by a piece ahead, the 
result is a foregone conclusion. 

(»■} The termination is pretty. 

Game No. 106. 
Played in the second round, April 29th. 

QUEEN'S FIANCHETTO. 

WhiU 

Black 

4B— K3 

B Kt2 

Q. H. D. (Jossip. 

I. Gunsberg. 

5 P— QB3 
6Kt— K2 

P— Q3 
K^-Q2 

IP— K4 

P— QKt3 

70—0 

KK<^B3 

2P Q4 

B— Kt2 

8P— B3 

0—0 

3B— Q3 

P— Kt3 

9Kir— Q2 

P-B4 

OUN8BEBO S GAMES. 

139 

10 R— B sq. 

11 P— Q5 (a) 

12 B— Kt sq. 

13 P— KR3 

14 K— E2 

15 P— QKt 3 

16 P— QB4 
17PxP(6) 

18 P— B4 

19 KR— B3 (c) 
20QB^B2 
21 QKt— Kt 3 
22B— Bsq. 
23Q— Q3 

24 P— K5 (e) 

25 P— B5 

Br— Bsq. 
Kt^K4 
P— QKt4 
QKt— Q2 
Kt-Kt3 
KKt— Q2 
PxP 
B— QE3 
R— Kt sq. 
B— Kt7(c0 
Kt— R5 
R— Kt5 
B— KKt2 
Kt(R5)— Kt3 
PxP 
BxP 

26RxB(/) 
27Q— Q2 
28E^B2 

29 Kt^R5 

30 Kl^B6 (a) 

31 Q— B4 
32QxQ 
33 B— B4 
34BxP 

35 PxP 

36 Kt— K7 ch. 
37BxKt 
38P— Kt3 

39 R— B3 

40 Resigns. 

RxR 
P— K5 
Kt— B3 
B^Kt5 
Q— Q3ch. 
RxB 
PxQ 
Kt(B3)xP 
R—QBsq. 
RPxP 
KtxKt 
B— K4 ch. 
P— K6 
Kt— Q4 

(a) There is no reason yet for chan^ng his strategical disposition - of forces and 
simply keeping the two centre Pawns well protected. As a rule, neither of 
White's KP or QP should advance unless the opponent play the corresponding 
adjoining Pawns two squares. Thus, in the present instance. White should 
have waited with the advance of P — Q.5 until Black played P — K4. As it is. 
Black obtains good entrance at K4 with his pieces, which become troublesome 
to White's position. 

(6) By far better was 17 KtxP, and if 17. ..KtxKt; ISRxKt, 18 B— R3; 19 
R— R4, etc. 

(c) The Rook is useless on this row. B — Q8, in order to play R — QKt sq. soon, 
was the correct plan. 

{(I) This and the nest two moves of Black are high style of Chess in the conduct 
of the Q side attack. 

(e) A desperate efFort to retrieve a game that is already seriously compromised. He 
could not, however, save the QBP, for if 24 Kt— Q2, 24 Kt x P; 26 R x Kt, 25 
Kt — Kt 3, and wins. 

(y) He was bound to give up the exchange anyhow. If 26 Q — Q sq., 26 P — K6, 
followed by B — Q6, also wins a Rook for a Bishop. 

(Sf) His game was untenable, but of course it did not improve matters to give up 
a clear piece in addition to the material already lost. 

(A) For, wherever the Bishop may move to, the reply B — ^Kt 7 Mrins another clear 
piece. 

140 

GUNSBERO S OAHES. 

Game No. 107. 

Played in the first round, Marcli 26tli. 

INDIAN OPENING. 

White 

J. M. Hanham. 

IP— K4 
2 P— Q3 (a) 
3PxP 
4P— KKt4 
5B— Kt2 
6P— KR3 
7KK^-B3 

8 0— O 

9 Kt— B3 (d) 

10 Kt— K2 

11 Kt-Kt3 

12 K— R2 

13 Kt— R4I 
14PxP 
15B— K3 
16Kt— Kt6 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. 

P-K4 
P— KB4 (b) 
KKt^B3 
P— KR3 (c) 
P--Q4 
B— B4 
K<^B3 
0—0 
E— Ksq. 
B— Kt3 
Q— Q3 
P— K5 
PxP. 
Kt— Q5 
B— Q2 
B— Kt4(e) 

17 P^QR4 
18P— B5 
19QxKt(j/) 
20PxB 

21 R— B3 

22 QBr-KB sq. 

23 Q— Q sq. 
24RxR 
25R— B4 
26Q— Q2 
27BxP 

28 B— B3 (//) 

29 Q— Kt2 
30QxP 
31K— Kt2 
32Q— R4 
33RxB 
34KxR 
35 Resigns. 

sq. 

B— R3 
Kt— Kt6(/) 
BxB 
RxP 
QE^K 
P— B4 
BxP 
RxR 
P— B5 
P-Q5 
P— R4 
P— R5 
PxKtch. 
B— K5 (i) 
31P— Q6 
BxBch. 
RxR 
P— Q7 

(a) Though this opening has been in favor with strong players of East India, 
whence it also derives its name, it cannot be recommended. By steady devel- 
opment on the part of the opponent, White ought ultimately to be incon- 
venienced by the restricted action of his KB. 

(6) Very bold, and in fact injudicious, for White has already gained an important 
developing move for the ordinary defence of the King's Gambit. 

(c) Necessary now, and therefore all the more disadvantageous to his game. 

(d) White could have also much increased his advantage here by Kt x P, followed 
by P— Q4, in reply to Kt x Kt. 

(c) No doubt an oversight, such as Mr. Gunsberg rarely commits. As will l>e 
seen, White wins a piece by force in consequence. 

(/)If 18 B— B4; 1» P— QKt4. 

{g) He would have been more comfortable on the K side, and could have sooner 
assumed the attack if he had been satisfied with two minor pieces for the 
Rook, by l»PxB, 19KtxR; 20 PxP. 

(/*) White has played the greater part of the game very well, but he ruins his 
game by the present move just at a time when he could have secured the 
victory with a little more enterprise, thus: 28 PxP, 28 KtxP; 29 KtxKt, 
29 lt-K7ch.; 80 QxR, 80BxQ; 81 B— Q.5 ch., 81 K— R2 (if 31...gxB, 
then, of course, 82 Ktr-K7ch. and wins); 82 Kt— Kt8, 82 K— RS; 38 Kt— K4, 
38 Q— Kt sq. (if 88. . .Q x B; 84 R— R4 ch., 84 B— R4; 85 R x B ch., 35 K x R; 
36Kt—B4ch., and wins); 84K— Ktsq., 34 B— R4; 35 R^R4, 35QxP; 36 
Kt — Kt3, and wins. 

(t) This completely disorgapizes the adverse game. 

OXTXSBEBO 8 OAHE& 

141 

Game No. 108. 

Played in the second round, April 19th. 

PHILIDOB'S DEFENCE. 

White 

I. tiunsberg. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3P— Q4 
4KB— B4 
5 QKir-B3 
6B— KKt5 
7P— KB4 
8PxP(a) 
9KtxKt 

10 Q-Q3 (i) 

llBxKt 

12 O— 0^0 

13 QR— KB sq. 

14B— Kt3 
15 P— KB4 (rf) 
16Q— Kt3 

Black 

J. >L Hanham. 

P— K4 
P— Q3 
Kt— Q2 
Q— B3 
P— QB3 
Q— Kt3 
KKt— B3 
KtxP 
PxKt 
P— KR3 
QxB 
B— K2 

(o)_ 

P— QKt4 
P— QR4 

O— 0(e) 
B-Q3(/) 

17PxP 
18Q— Kt6 
19BxB 
20QxQ 
21Er-B3 

22 K— Q sq. 

23 K— K2 
24PxR 
25 R— Q sq. 
26KtxR 
27 Kt— B2 (g) 
28P— R5 

29 Kt— R3 

30 K— B2 

31 K— Kt3 

32 K— Kt4 
33P— Kt3 
34P— QB4 
35K— Kt3 

QxP 
B— K3 
QxB 
PxQ 
R— R2 
E— Q2 
RxR 
B— B5 
RxR 
K— B2 
B— Q3(A) 
K— B3 
P— K4 
B— B4cL 
B— K6 
P— B4 
P— Kt4 
P— QKt6 
K— K3 
Drawn. 

( a) Black will be relieved now of a weak Pawn and his confined KB is made free. 

We would have preferred Q — K2. 
(6) Again we prefer Q — K2, in order to leave room for B — Q8 eventually. 

(c) The K side attack here initiated, though it is ingeniously conducted by White, 
effects no advantage. The more steady preparation by P— KB3 supported the 
centre and left White in possession of the open Q file. 

(d) Unsound against best play. 

(e) 15. . .P— R5, and if 16 P x P, 16 Q— R8 was safe enough. 

(/) Again Black loses an opportunity by 16 . . . P x P; 17 B x P, 17 Q— K4; 18 P— 
QR4, 18B— Q3; 19 KB— Esq., 19 B— K3; 20 Q— K sq. or — Q8, 20BxB; 21 
Px B, 21 P— Kt5, followed by Q— QB4 ch., winning the exchange. 

(ff) A careless move that greatly endangered the game. Kt — K3, with the object 
of supporting the BPby Kt — Kt 2, kept the game even. 

(h) Whereas now there was nothing to sto^ Black from entering at Kt 8 with the 
view of playing K— B4, whereupon White's KBP must have fallen soon, and 
with it the ^ame. After this omission the game assumes a clear drawn aspect, 
which is ultimately the result. 

142 

GUNSBEBG 8 GAMES. 

Game No. 109. 

Played in the second round, May 2d. 

STONEWALL OPENING. 

JV/dte 
J. M. Hanham. 

IP— Q4 

2 P— KB4 

3P— K3 

4B— Q3 

5P— B3 

6Kt— B3 

7QKt— Q2 

8 0—0 

9Klr-Kt5 
lOB— B2 
11 Ktr-B sq. (c) 
12Kfc-Kt5 

13 B— Q2 

14 B— K sq. 
15R— QBsq. 
16KB^B2 

17 Kt— B sq. 

18 K<H-R3 

19 B— B2 
20B— K2 
21P— QKt3 
22RPxP 
23P— QKt4(A) 
24B— Kt4 
25B— R4 
26B— B2 
27B— K2 
28BPxP 
29PxP 
30Kt— B4 

31 B— B3 
32KtxB 

Black 
I. Gunsberg. 

P-Q4 

P— KKt3(a) 
B— Kt2 
P— Kt3 
B— Kt2 
Kt— Q2 
KKt— B3 
0—0 
P— K3 
Ki— K8q.(6) 
Kt— Q3 id) 
P— QB4 
Q— K2 
QE— B sq. 
R— B2 
KB— QB sq. 
P— B3 
P— K4 (e) 
P-B5(/) 
B— B3 
KtPxP(?) 
P— QKt4 
Kt— Kt3 
B— Q2 

Klr-B4 

P— KE4 
Kt— Q3 
PxP 
BxP 
Q— B2 
B— K3 (t) 
QxKt 

33Q— Q3 

34 K<^Q2 

35 K<r-Kt sq. 

36 P— K4 

37 BxP 
38Q-B3 0) 

39 Q— K2 

40 B— QB5 
41Q.xP(0 
42PxKt 

43 B— B3 (n) 

44 K— R sq. 

K— Kt2 

Kt(Q3)— B5 

B— B3 

PxP 

B^Q2 

Kt— K4 

KlH-Kt5 

K<^R6 (k) 

KtxB 

R (B sq.)— Q 

sq. {vi) 
Q— K6 ch. 
R— Q8 ch. (o) 

Position after Black's 44th move 

R— Q8 ch. 

Black — I. Gunsberg. 

White— J. M. Hanham. 

45 Q— B sq. (p) Q— B5 (?) 

46 Resigns. 

(a) We would recommend the following treatment of this opening, viz.: To 
advance P — K3, followed by P — QB4, and then we would develop the KKt at 
R3, followed by P — KB8 and Kt — B2, which would give Black an early oppor- 
tunity of breaking through by P — K4. 

(6) We do not approve of this, as it gives White an opportunity of getting rid 
of his weak KP by advancing it. 

('•) And no doubt White ought to have availed himself of such a chance, which 
does not again offer itself all through, and his game consequently remains 
hampered. 

gunsberg's games. 143 

(//) Black rectifies his previous error, and again he has the best of the game. 

{€) The formation of Black's attack on the Q wing and in the centre is excellently- 
devised, and his Rooks are well posted, whilst those of his opponent are quite 
inactive. 

(/) We would not have closed up this file now, but would have reserved the 
option of breaking through either with the QBP or KP, for White could not do 
anything in the meanwhile. Kt — B sq., followed by Kt — K3, appears to us 
far better. 

(ff) We do not approve of this capture, and would have preferred P — QKt 4. 

(h) This creates another bad spot at QB4, instead of which he could advan- 
tageously have played R — R2, followed by doubling Rooks. 

(I) 31 . . .B— B4 was not good, on account of 32 Kt x QP, 32 B x R; 33 R x B, and 
Black must give up the exchange ; for if he remove the Rook, then follows 
Kt X Kt and B— Q5. 

(J) Clearly losing a move. Q— K2 at once was the proper play. 

(A) We do not consider this sound, though in actual play it leads to a fine 
termination in favor of Blftck. 

(l) For instead of this premature capture White ought to have first attacked the 
Knight by P— KR3, and he could afterward take the KtP safely. 

{m) This powerful move leaves Black without resource. 

(«) No better was 43 Q— K2, whereupon would follow 43. . .Q— K4; 44 P— Kt 3, 
44 R— K2; 45 R— K sq., 45 R(Q sq.)— K sq., followed by QxBP ch., with a 
winning game. 

(o) A beautiful sacrifice. See diagram. 

(jD)Of course, if he take the Rook with the Bishop, the reply Q — K8 ch. forces 
mate, and 45 R x R only delays the disaster by one move. 

(q) An artistic finish. White can only play P — Kt 3, whereupon the crushing 
answer Q x B ch. follows. 

Game No. 110. 

Played in the first round, March 29th. 

FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White Black 5BxKt BxB 

LGunsberg. M. Judd. ? fj^f^ 0-0^^^ 

IP— K4 P— K3 8P— B3 P— QKt3 

2P— Q4 P— Q4 9B— Q3 R-K sq. 

3QKt— B3 KKt— B3 10 P— KB4 K<^Q2 

4B— KKt5(a) B^K2 11 KKt— Kt 5 Ki^B sq. 

(a) Sometimes adopted by strong masters, but we consider 4 P— K5 more promis- 
ing for the first player. 

(6) 6. . .0— O, and if 7 B— Q3, 7 P— QB4 was stronger. The exchange of Pawns 
allows the opponent to fortify his Q side and to occupy a good post for his 
Knight in the centre. 

144 gunsbebg's games. 

12 Q— B3 (c) E— Kt sq. 23 Kt— B sq. B— B3 

13 0—0—0 B— Kt2 24Kt— Q2 Q— KB2 

14 Q— K3 B— K2 25 Kt— B3 (i) QB— Q sq. 
15B— Kt5 P— QB3(rf) 26 Br-R6 B— Kt4 
16B— B4 P— QKt4 27P— Kt4 K— E sq. 
17B— Kt3 P— Kt5 28Kt— K5 Q— QB2 

18 P— QB4 B— B sq. 29 QR— R sq. E— K2 

19 P_B5 (e) Q— B2 30 Kt x P ch. Kt x Kt 
20P— B4 P— B4(/) 31ExKt E— Q4 
21 Kt— Kt 3 B X Kt ig) 32 KB— E6 Resigns. 
22RPxB P— Kt3(/0 

(c) ^\^lite^s conduct of the attack is of the highest order. 

(r/) Rather than to block his QB and weaken his position on the Q side he ou^h^ 
to have played 15. . .Kt — Q2. There was not so much danger in his position 
as might appear at first sight, and, on the contrary, we think that if White 
precipitated his attack, he was likely to get the worst of the game. If, for 
instance, 16 Q— Q3, 16 P— KR3; 17 B x Kt, 17 Q x B; 18 Kt— B5, 18 B x QKt; 
19 Q— R7ch., 19 K— B sq.; 20 PxB, 20 Q— B3; 21 Kt— B3 (or 21 Q— R8 ch., 
21K— K2; 22QxP, 22PxKt; 23QxKtPch., 23K— Bsq.; 24 P— R5, 24 
P — K4, with a piece ahead), 21 . . . P — KB3, with the superior game. 

(e) Black's pieces are now much blocked, but, in our opinion, the advance in the 
text wediened too much the QP for the ending, and we would have preferred 
P — KB4, followed by P — KKt4, which eventually reserved the option for 
White of effecting a breach in the Q centre by P — Q5, after removing 
K— Ktsq. 

(/) His centre becomes extremely weak by this advance. P — KB3 was his right 
play. He could afterward remove his ll— Q sq., followed by B — Q2 and B~^K 
sq. , with a good game. 

{g) It could not mend matters to give the opponent an open KR file at once, and 
P— KKt 3 was a better defence. If, however, 21 . . . K— R sq. ; 22 Kt x BP, 22 
P X Kt; 23 Kt— B7 ch., 23 K— Kt sq. ; 24 Kt— Q6 disch., and wins. 

{h) This gives the adversary a strong foothold for his Rooks at White's R6, but he 
could not otherwise defend the KBP, which White threatened to take with the 
Knight. 

(i) The handling of the Knights is one of Mr. Ounsberg's strong points, and here 
is a remarkable instance of his skill in manoeuvring this piece. 

{j) White's formation of the attacking forces has been managed in a thoroughly 
scientific manner, and his final assault is irresistible. 

Game No. 111. 

Played in the second round, April 23d. 

QUEEN'S FIANCHETTO. 

White Black 

M. Judd. I. Gunsberg. 

1 P— K4 P— QKt 3 

2 P— Q4 B— Kt 2 

3 P-KB3 

P— Kt3 

4P— B3 

B Kt2 

5B— Q3 

P— K4 

6P Q5 

KKi^B3 

7B K3 

0—0 

GUNBBEItGS OAME8. 

145 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

,13 
14 

15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 

'24 
25 

' 2fi 
2' 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 

Kt— K2 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— B sq. 
E— B sq. 
P— KKt4(«) 
QxKt 
R— B2 
Q— Q2 
BxKt 
Q— K3 
B— R3 
P-QB4 
R— Kt sq. 
P— Kt3 
B— Bsq. 
Kt— B3 
R— B2 
Kt— Kt 3 
Q— Kto 
^KtxP 
KtxB 
KtxR 
Q-Q2 
Q— K3 
Q— K4 
B— K3 
P— KR4 (/) 
Kt— R3 {(f) 
QxKtP' 
RxQ 
BxRP 

P-Q3 
QKt— Q2 
P-QR4 
Kt— B4 
KtxBcL. 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— B4 
Q_B3 (//) 
QxP(<-l 
QxKtP(^/) 
P— KB4 
PxP 
Q— B6 
R— B2 
B— QB sq. 
B— B4 
Q-R4 
Q— R5 
Q— R6 
BxKt 
RxR 

Q— B6 cli. (e) 
Q— KB6 
Q— B4 
Q— B2 
R— KB sq. 
K— R sq. 
P— R3 
QxQ 
R— B6 
RxKt 

39BxBcb. 

K— R2 

40R— Kt4 

R— R8 ch. 

41 K Q2 

R^R7 cli. 

42 K— B3 

RxP 

43B— B6 

R KB7 

44B Q8 

R— B2 

45 K Q3(/<) 

R— Q2 

46B— Kt5 

K— Kt 3 

47 K— K4 

R-B2 

48 B— Q8 disch. 

K— R2 

49R— Kt3 

R— B5 ch. 

50 K— K3 (!) 

P— R5 

51 PxP 

RxBP 

52R— Kt2 

K— R3 

53R— QR2 

K— R4 

54P— R5 

PxP 

55RxP 
66 PxP 

P— B3 

RxP 

57 K— K4 

R— B5 ch. 

58 K— B5 

R— B5 ch. 

59 K— K6 

R— Q5 

60B B6 

K— Kt3 

61Rr-R7 

R^B5 

62R— Kt7ch. 

K— R4 

63B— Kt5 

R^B8 

64KxP 

P— K5 

65Rr-K7 

R— K8 

66K— Q5 

R— Q8 ch. 

67KxP 

R— K8 ch. 

68 K— B0 

R— B8 ch. (,/> 

69B— B4 

Resigns. 

(a) White's oi)eiiing play i.s to Ik* commended thus far. Here we would prefer 

preserving the KB by retreating the same to Fit .sq. The prematui*e advance 

in the text allows Bkck two marks of attack a.s soon as he will be ready to 

advance the KHI'. 
(6) Much superior was P--KBi. A bi-each on that file was then forced, and he 

could soon 8UpiK)it his attack on the K side by B — QB sq. 
(c) Black drops into a shrewdly-laid trap. He ought to have first retaken tlie 

Bishop. 
{(l) If l(j. . .g X R; 17 Kt (K2)— Kt 8 wins the Queen. 
(e) He had nothing better. If Q x RP, he obviously lost the Queen bv the reply 

R^Rsq. 
(/) The play on both sides since Black lost a piece deserves the highest praise. 

Black has made a splendid fight against large odds, while White, in parr}'ing 

the attack, had to encounter great difficulties. The latter now assumes the 

offensive vigorously and skilfully. 
(g) He threatens to enter with the Knight at K6, via Kt 5, and in reply to Q — B8 

he would still play Kt-Kt5. 
(A) His simplest and best plan was to enter on the Q wing with his King, via 

QKt 2, R3 and lU up to QB6, after protecting the QKtP by R— Kt 8. 
(i) K — Q3 would have saved much trouble. 
ij) Black runs into a mating position, but there was nothing to be done. If he 

146 

6UN8BEBO 8 OAUE8. 

exchanged Rooks, the adverse KP wins theoretically, as Black has an extiu 
Bishop, which comnmuds the last square that the Pawn has to reach in 
queening. 

Game No. 112. 

Played in the first round, April 6tli. 

CENTRE CX)UNTER GAMBIT. 

fVhite 
S. IjipschQtz. 

IP— K4 

2PxP 

3 QKt— B3 

4P-Q4 

5P— Q5 

6 B— B4 (o) 

7B— Kt3 

8B— Q2 

9P— QR3 
10 KKfr-K2 (d) 
llK<^Kt3 ■ 

12 0—0 

13 Q— K2 

14 B— QB4 
16 P— QKt 4 

16 Kt— Kt 5 

17 P— B4 

18 Kfr-B3 
19RxP 

20 KKt— K4 
21KtxB 
22K— B2 
23 Q— B sq. 
24B— B4 

25 P— R3 (e) 

26 R— Q sq. 

27 B— K2 
28Kt— R4 
29BxKt 
30P— B4 
31PxP 
32 Kt— B5 
33R— B4 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. 

P-Q4 («) 
QxP 
Q— QI14- 
QKt— B3 (b) 
Kt-Kt5 
B— B4 
0—0—0 
Q— Kt3 
Kt— QR3 
P— K4 
B— Kt3 
P— KB4 
Q— KB3 
Kt— B4 
Kt— Q2 
K— Kt sq. 
P— QR3 
PxP 
B-Q3 
Q-K4 
QxKt 
E— K sq. 
KKt— B3 
Kt-K4 
KKt— Q2 
P— R3 
B— R2 
P— KKt4 
KtxB 
P— Kt5 
PxP 
Q— K2 
P— KR4 

34 R (Q sq )— 

3.5 Q— B2 . 

36 K<^K6 

37 Er-Q sq. 

38 Kt— B5 {</) 
39RxKt 
40BxP 

41 Kt— fe:4 

42 P— Q6 (j) 

43 Q— B5 

44 R— QB sq. 

45 Q— B6 

46 K<r-B5 (k) 

Q4 (./•) 
Q— R5 
Q— Kt4 
Q— R3 
B— Kt sq. 
Kt— B6 ch. 
PxR 
Q-Q3 (h) 
Q— B5 
BxP(./) 
Q-B2 
P— Kt4 
PxP 
PxKt 

Position after White's 46th move 

Kt-B5 

Black — I. Gunsberg. 

White— S. Upschatz. 

47 Q— R8 ch. K— B2 

48 Q— B6 ch. K— Kt sq. 

49 Q— R8 ch. {D 

Given up as drawn. 

(a) This opening allows the first player to gain important time in the develop- 
ment, and is therefore not to be commended. 

OUNSBERO'S GAMES. 147 

(6) New but not good. However, against the old move, 4. . .P — K4, we would 
recommend 5 P — Q5, which secures the majority on the Q side, with the better 
game. 

(e) 6 Kt— B3 is superior; for if 6. . .B— B4 or P— K3; 7 B— Kt5 ch. would give 
White a strong attack at once. 

(d) Kt — KB3, with future attacking views at K5 or Kt 5, was preferable. 

{e) B — K2 served the same object practically of preventing the entrance of the 

adverse Knight, and was preferable on principle, 
t/) White has assumed the attack again very cleverly, and he has the best of the 

game. Q — B2 was, however, preferable here, whereas the move in the text 

has little object and ultimately loses time. 
(jf) 38 R— B6, and if 38. . . P— Kt 6; 89 Q— B4 would have maintained his superior- 
ity without loss of material. 
Oi) A much better defensive move was 40. . .R — Q sq., which would have closed 

White's principal avenue of attack. 
(/} Mr. Lipschiitz makes an excellent fight with inferior forces and very nearly 

succeeds. 
(J) This ought to have lost by rights. 42. . .B— B2, and if 43 Q— B5, 43 R^QB 

sq. was his best play. If, however, 42. . .RxKt; 43 P— Q7, winning. 
(k) Very fine indeed, but, unfortunately, he himself overlooks its real force. See 

diagram. 

(f) A lucky escape for Black, for White could have won with ease by 49 R x B, 49 
R— K8 ch. (if 49 P X R, White wins the Queen by Q— R8 ch. and Q— Kt 7 ch.); 
50 K— B2, 50R— B8ch.; 5lKxR, 51QxRch.; 52K— Ktsq., 52 Rr— R2, 
best; 53 Q — Kt 6 ch., 53 K — B sq. ; 54 Q x P ch., and then proceeds to win the 
Rook by Q — R5 ch. and Q — Kt 7 ch. , after which he has an easy task to win 
the game. 

Game No. 113. 
Played in the second round, May 6th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

4P-Q3 

Kt— K2 (a) 

I. Qunsberg. 

S. Lipschatz. 

5 P— QB3 (b) 

6 QKt— Q2 

Kt— Kt3 
P— B3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

7 B— B4 (c) 

B— K2 

2 KKt-B3 

QK1^B3 

8 Kt— B sq. 

0—0 

3B— Kt5 

K1H-B3 

9Q— B2 

P Q4 

(a) Mortimer's variation, founded on the idea that Black cannot capture the KPat 

once on account of the rejoinder P — QB3, followed by Q^R4 ch., winning a 

piece. 
(6) In our ** Modem Chess Instructor" we recommend here 6 KB — QB4, with the 

main continuation: 6. . .Kt— QB3; 7 Kt— Kt5, 7 P— Q4; 8 PxP, 8 KtxP; 9 

Q— B3, 9 B— K3; 10 Kt x B, with the superior game, 
(c) Preferable in such situations is B — R4, where he is not exposed to the attacks 

of the centre Pawns, and has the option of retreating afterward to Kt 3 or B2, 

according to circumstances. 

148 

GUN8BERO S OAHEa 

Position after iilack's 1 8th move 

KtxP 

Black— S. LipKc-liiitz. 

lOB— Kt3 Kt— IU(fn 

1 1 P— Kt 3 {e} K— R sq. (./" ) 

12 P— KR4 ((J) P— KB4 
13B— KKt5(/0 BPxP(0 

14BxB 
15Kt— Kt5 
16QxP 

17 Q-K2 (./) 

18 P X Kt 

19 Resigns. (»i ) 

QxB 

PxP 

P— K5 

Kt (R4)-B5 {k) 

KtxP (A) 

White — I. Gunsberg. 

{(/) Witli this excellent move Black prepares an attack that is well suprorted by 
the di8]:>osition of his pieces. 

if) As v/ill ])e seen, the hole becomes verv troublesome soon. 11 Kt — K3 was 
muchsafer, for if 11...P— Qr); 12 Kt— RA, 12 K- BO; ):5Vx[\ 13 PxP; 14 
B — Qi5, and White has gained the point that the dangerous advance of the 
adverse QBP is stopped and that his Knight cannot well be attacked by P— 
QKt4 on account of the rejoinder Kt— Ro. 

(/) A good preparation for the coming onslaught, conside.ing that liis plan is to 
advance P — KB4, and Wliite has then also the option of exchanging the QP. 

{(J) Wliite recklessly neglects his own safety for a fanciful sort of an attack. 12 
Kt — K8 was imperative, and if 12. . .B— K3; 18 Kt — B5 would, at least, greatly 
delay any adverse attack. 

(/<) An error of judgment, w*hei'eby the exchange is forced of a strong defensive 
piece that additionally protected his tender point at KB4, besides that it costs 
a valuable Pawn which Jje coi^ld ill spare at this stage of the game, and that 
he allows the opponent io open his KB file, which contingency he ought to 
have avoided as long as possible. 13 PxQP, 13 PxP wei*e, at any rate, 
nepessary preliminaries, auVl he might then more safely have pursued his plan 
by 14 B-—Kto^ with fair prospects of iriaking his defence good, for if Black 
answered 1^*. . . P— K5, then 15 Kt— Q4, etc. 

(/) Black breaks in witli irresistible force. 

ij) Absolutely fatal, but his ^^ame was not enviable either after his best move, IT 
•Q— Qsq., 17 Kt— B3; 18 Kt— K3, 18 Kt— K4: 19 B— B2, 19 B or Kt— Kt 5, 
with a fine attack. 

ik) Black d&shes in with a masterly manoeuvre. 

il) See diagram. 

(m) For he evidently has nothing better than 19 Q — B2, whereupon follows 19. . . 
Kt— Q6 ch. ; 20 K— Q sq., 20 R x P, threatening the fatal B— Kt 5 ch. 

GUN8BERO 8 GAMES. 

149 

(xaiue No. 114. 

Played in the first round, April 12th. 

QUEEN S BISHOP PAWN OPENINii^. 

;r////r 

Black 

X. Maclieotl. 

1. (iuiLslierg. 

IP— Ki 

P— K4 

2 P— QB3 

P-Q4 
P— KB3 

3 KK^-B3 

4B K2(a) 

PxP 

5 Q— R4 ch. 

K<H-B3 

6QxKP 

P— B4 

7Q-QR4 

B— Q2 

8B— Kt5 

P— QR3 
BxB 

9BxKt 

10 Q— Q sq. (6) 

B Q3 

11 P — Q3 

Kt— B3 

12 P— KR3 (c) 

Q-K2 

13B— Kt5 

0 0 0 

14 QK<H-Q2 

P— R3 

ISBxKt 
16 Q— B2 (rf) 
17PxP 

18 Kf^Q4 

19 QKt-B3 
20Q— K2 
21 Kt— B2 
22KxP 
23KB^-Q8q. 
24 Kt— K3 
25Kt-B4 
26 K— Kt sq. 
27QxQch. 
28PxB 

29 K— R sq. (/) 

30 R— K sq. ig) 

PxB 
P— K5 (e) 
PxP 
P— K6 
B— K5 
P— QB4 
PxPch. 
KB— Kt sq. 
Q— K3 
QR— K sq. 
B— Kt6cli. 
BxKt 
RxQ 
R^K7 
B— B5 
R^R7 mate. 

(a) White might obtain three Pawns for the Knight by 4 KtxP, 4 FxKt; 
.5(J— R5ch.,5K— K2; 6QxKPcJi., 6B— K8; 7PxP, 7QxP; SQxBPch., 
8 Kt — Q2, but as his Pawn superiority is divided on two wings and his pieces 
are, moreover, little developed. White's game would be much inferior. 

(6) White has lost a number of moves, whereas Black has g^uped his pieces and 
Pawns in an excellent attacking order. 

ic) Useless, as usual. 

id) A little better was Q— K2. 

(<*> Black is not slow to press the attacking opportunity which he holds witli 
energy to the end. 

( /') K — B sq. might have prolonged the game which, however, there was no 
means of saving. 

(y) The mate could only be delayed at the cost of a clear Rook by R— Q2, and 
White probably preferred the nappy despatch at once. 

150 

0UN8BEBQ 8 GAMES. 

Game No. 115. 

Played in the second round, May 13 th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECUNEI). 

I. GuiLslH'Iff. 

IP— K4 
2P— KB4 

3 KKt— B3 

4 B— B4 (r) 

5 0—0 
6Kt— B3 
7P— Q4 

8 Q— Q3 (e) 

9KxB 

10 P— QB3 (/) 
IIB— Kt5 
12B— R4 
13KtxP(?) 
14BxP 
15 P— Q5 
16BxQ 
17 B— B6 
18BxR 
19 K— R sq. 
20R-B2 
21 Br-q sq. 
22PxP 
23RxKt 
24E^B4 

25 P— B3 

26 QR—KB sq. 
27R— B5 
28P— Kt4 
29R(B8q.)— B3 
30 K— Kt sq. 
31RxP 

32 R^K3 

33 R— R7 ch. 
34R^Q3 

35 K— B sq. 
36RxRch. 
37RxP 
38R— Q3 
39 K— K sq. 
40K— Q2 

Black 

X. MacLecHl. 

P— K4 

P— Q3 (a) 

QKt— B3(fi) * 

B— Kt5 

PxP 

Kt— B3 id) 

P— KKt4 

BxKt 

Q— Q2 

P— KR4 

P— R3 

P— Kt4 

PxKt 

K— K2 (h) 

Kt— K4 

KtxQ 

KtxB 

Kt— K7 ch. 

P— Ktsco 

Ki^-Q5 
P— Kt6 
PxP 
B— Kt2 
RxB 
Kt— Kt6 
R— KB sq. 
K1^B4 
Kt— Q6 
Kt— B7 ch. 
B— K4 
KtxP 
P— KB4 
K— Qsq. 
KtxP 

R— Rsq. 0') 
BxR 
B— K4 
K— B sq. 
K— Kt2 
Kt— K5 ch. 

41 K— B2 
42K— Kt3 
43 P— R4 
44R— Q2 
45 P— Kt 5 ch. 
46R— QB2 
47R— B6 
48RxBP 
49 R— R7 ch. 
50RxKt 

51 K— B2 

52 K— Q3 

53 K— K4 
54R— R8 

55 R— K8 ch. 

56 K— Q5 

57 R— QKt 8 

58 R— Kt 3 

59 R— KR3 
60K— K4 

61 R^KB3 

62 R— QKt 3 
63R^Kt8 

64 R— KKt 8 

65 R— Kt 6 ch. 
66R— Re 

67 K— B5 

68 R— R7 ch. 
69K— K4 
70R— B7ch. 
71 R^B4 (m) 
72K— Q5 

73 R— B2 

74 R— B6 

75 K— K6 
76K— Q7 

77 R— Kt 6 ch. 

78 K— B6 

79 R— Kt 7 ch. 
80R— Kt5 

81 K— Q5 

82 K— K6 
83RxB 

K— Kt3 
P— B5 
Kt— B3 
K— R3 
K— R4 (k) 
KtxP 
Kt— Kt3 
KtxP 
KxP 
K— B4 
K-Q4 
K— K3 
K— B3 
K— K3 
K— B3 
K— B4 
K— Kt5 
K— B4 
K— B3 
K— Kt4 
K— Kt5 
K— Kt4 
K— B3 
K— K3 (I) 
K— B2 
K— K2 
K— Q2 
K— B3 
K— B4 
K— Kt3 
K— Kt4 
K— Kt3 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt sq. 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt sq. 
K— R2 
B— Q5 
K— R sq. 
B— K4 
K— R2 
K— R sq. 
PxR 

GUNSBERO'S GAXEB. 151 

84KxP K— Ktsq. 89P— Kt4 K— K3 

85KxP K— Bsq. 90P— Kt5 K— K2 

86K— Kt5 K— Qsq. 91P— Kt6 K— K sq. 

87K— Kt6 K— Ksq. 92 K— E8 Resigns. 

88 K— Kt 7 K— K2 

(/f ) In thus declining the gambit Hlack inconveniently shuts up his KB without 
his having the compensation of a Pawn plus. 

(h) If now 3. . .Px P; 4 P-~Q4, 4 P— KKt4; 5 P— KR4, 5 P— KB8 (if 5. . .P— 
Kt 5, White may either retreat Kt — KKt sq. , with a very good game, or, as 
some practitioners prefer, he may bring about a strong form of the AUgaier 
Gambit by Kt— Kt5. 

\r) We prefer in this situation B — Kt 5. 

(«^/) Black could have also safely played here 6...Kt^K4, and if 7 KtxKt, 7 
P X Kt I (not 7 . . . B X Q, which leads to a well-known mating combination, by 
8 B X P ch., 8 K— K2; 9 Kt— Q5 mate); 8 Q x B, 8 Q— Qo ch., etc. 

(e) Much stronger play was 8 P— KKt 3, for if 8...B— R6; 9BxPch.,etc. Or 
if 8. . . P X P; 9 QB x P, with an equally vehement attack. 

(y)We consider this useless. Even now P — KKt 8 would have been strong 
enough. In reply to QKt — Kt5, which White seemingly wishes to guard 
against, he had a good answer by Q — K2. 

{(/) The sacrifice is more bold than sound, &s Black's actual play proves for a 
considerable time. 

ih) Very good, but still better was 14. . .R— QKt sfj.; 15 P— Q5, 15 RxB, and if 
16 P X Kt, 16 Q X P, and wins. 

(/) Which loosens his strongest Pawn on the K side. By far better was 19 
B— Kt2, 19B— B6; 20 Kt— Q5. 

(J) His Rook was a powerful auxiliary for his attack, and he ought never to have 
allowed its exchange, and much less ought he to have offered to exchange the 
same, more especially as he loses a very valuable Pawn thereby. After 85 . . . 
P — Bo, his winning ought only to have been a question of time. 

(k) Black, after having carefully played for a great series of moves, allows himself 
to be lured into a very clever trap, which loses a piece. 45 . . . K — Kt 2, and if 
46 K— Kt4 or 46 P— R5, 46 Kt— Kt5, followed by Kt— K6, made his game 
more safe and easy for a draw, whereas his defence now becomes very difficult. 

il) With this imprudent move his fate is decided. With good judgment he has 
kept all along with his King within reach of his Bishop and BP as much as 
possible, but now his King is driven back to the second row and the rest is 
easy for an experienced master like his opponent. K — B2 was the right play, 
and if 65 R— Kt4, 65 K— B3, etc. 

(/») White could have much shortened the winning process by 71 R — K7, threat- 
ening R X B at once. After gaining the two Pawns he could easily reach with 
his King the square at KKt 6 in front of his passe<l Pawn, which would have 
produced a well-known theoretical position, in which the Pawn would win 
even if Black's King stood at KKt sq. and had the opposition, and no matter 
which side had to move first. 

152 

GUNSBEBO 8 QAMES. 

Game Xo. 110. 

Played iu the first round, March 28th. 

TWO KNIGHTS- DKFENCK. 

I). M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3 B— B4 

4 Kt— Kt 5 
5PxP 

6 B— Kt 5 ch. 

7PxP 

8B— K2 

9 Kt^KB3 (a) 
10 Kt— K5 
11P--Q4 
12 P— KB4 
13KtxP{B3) 

14 Q— Q3 (c) 

15 B— K3 (e) 

Black 

I. Gunsl)erg. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
P— Q4 
Kt— QR4 
P— B3 
PxP 
P— KR3 
P— K5 
B— Q3 
Q— B2 {/>) 
P X P en pass. 
Kt— Kt5 . 
B— K3(d) 
Kfr— B5 

16B— B2(/) 

17 Q— K4 ■ 

18 QKt— Q2 

19 Kt— K5 
20PxKt 

21 O— O «/) 

22 Q— KR4 

23 KR— K nq. 
24Q— R3 

25 QR^Kt 8(1- 

26 B— K3 

27 KR— Q sq. 

28 Kt— Kt 3 
29RxR 

30 B— B2 

31 Q— B3 
32QxB 

33 ResiguK. (/) 

Kt X KtP 
0-0 

KR— K sq. 
KtxKt 
BxKP 
B— QB5 (/>) 
BxB 
B— B3 
Kt— R5 
B— QB6 
QB-QKt4 
QR^Qsq. 
Kt— Kt7 
QxR 
Kt— Q8 
KtxB 
Kt— Q8 

(«)In the '"Modern Chess Instructor" 9 Kt— KK:t is n>coinmeii(ie<l at this 

junctui-e. 
(6) TTie last two moves are. we believe, Mr. T.sehigoriii's invention, but anyln>\v 

his favorites. They, no doubt, give the second player ii strong counter-attack. 
{e) His best play, and anyhow he could not attempt to sjivc tlie HP. If 14 I* — 

Kt 3, 14 QB— KB4, and White cannot develop himself. If. for instauci*. 1 5 

QKt — Q3, 15 B X P ch., with a winning game. 
('/) Black in turn could not play for winning * Pawn v.iilnui; .'i:i-ca:ly criibvif- 

6(i--K4c;!.. J« 
Kt:.': IJfP-Kt 

l.") H— Q>. an<l if 

rassing his game. If U.'. .KtxP; ISKtxivt. 15B>:Kt 

B— K8; 17 P— QKt 4. 17B— Kt6ch.; 18K-Q.sq., 18 Kl 

19 Kt— Q sq. ; 20 P— QB4, with a strong attack. 
(»•) Weak play that greatly assi-sts the adverse development 

15 . . . Kt— B5; 16 P— QKt 8 were vastly superior. 
(/) Rather than to give up the QKtP we would have retreated Qlt— U s<j.. but 

White's game was anyhow inferior. 
(17) White had no good defence. 

(h) This powerful move breaks up the adverse game completely. 
(II White was helpless for a long time with a piece behind, and all further i-esist- 

ance now is utterly useless. If 33 Q— Kt4, 83 P— QK4: 34 Kt x P. 34 P— QU4. 

and wins, for if Q x P or B, Black mates by R — K8. 

GUN8BERG S GAMES. 

153 

Game No. 117. 

Played in the second round, April 21st. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 

Black 

I. Gunsberg. 

D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 

QK1^B3 
B B4 

4P-Q3 
5B KKt 5 
6Kt— B3 

Kt-B3 
P-<33 
B K3 

7Kt— Q5 
8BxB 

BxKt 
Kt— K2 

9B— Kt3 

Kt— Kt3 

10 Q— K2 

P— KR3 

IIB— Q2 
12 0—0—0 

Q-Q2 
P— QR4 

13 P— B3 

P-R5 (a) 

14 B— B2 

15 B— K3 (b) 

16 P— B4 (c) 

17 P— Q4 (d) 

18 P— QKt 3 (/) 
19BxP 
20KtxB 
21P— Kt3 

22 Kt— Kt 5 

23 P— K5 (i) 

24 P— B4 

25 BxKt 
26PxP 
27 Q— Q2 
28RxQ 
29KtxKP 

Q— Kt4 
R— R3 
Q-R4 
P— R6 (<•) 
PxP 
BxB 
0-0 (sr) 
R^K sq. (h) 
R^Qaq. 
R— Ksq. 
PxP 
PxB 
QR^K3. 
QxQch. 
RxP 
Rr-K8 ch. (A) 

U) 

(a) Against Ijest play such an early attempt at forcing an attack before the pieces 
are well developed ought only* to weaken his Pawns for the ending. 

(b) We would have preferred KR — K sq., threatening P — Q4, which forces an 
exchange of Queens, with the advantage for White, who has two Bishops and 
a stnmg centre. 

{Cj Careless and very weak, especially for such a master as Mr. Gunsberg. Kt — 
Q2, with the view of entering at QB4, was safe enough. 

(d) White's game is already inferior. If 17 BxB, 17 PxB, and White's QP 
remains weak. Or if 17 B — Q2, 17 Q — Kt 3, etc. But he makes matters much 
worse by the move in the text: K — Kt sq. was imperative. 

(e) All the consequences of this highly ingenious coup could not have been fore- 
seen by White, or else he would probably liave guarded against it. 

(/) If 18 P X B, the game might have proceeded : 18. . . P x P ch. ; 19 K x P, 19 
Q X P; 20 K— B sq., 20 Kt x P; 21 Q— Q3, 21 Q— R8 ch. ; 22 B— Kt sq., 22 R— 
R7; 23 Q— Kt 3, 23 R— R6; 24 Q— Kt 2, 24 R— B6 ch., and wins. 

(ff) 20. . .Q— Kt4 ch.; 21 K— Kt sq. (if 21 Q— K3, 21 QxQ ch., with the superior 
game), iJl. . .Qx P was not safe on account of 22 Kt — B5, and if 22. . .0 — O: 
23 P— KR4, with a fine attack. But we believe that 20. . .Kt— B5, followed by 
Q — K4, would have still maintained a strong attack, with the better position. 

(A) Black loses valuable time with this and the next two moves. Kt — K4, 
followed by Kt — QB3, would have prepared a strong entrance of his Knight 
at QKt 5. 

(t) A beautiful surprise. 

(J) If 23...KtxP; 24QxKt, 24 P— B3; 25 RxP, 25PxKt; 26RxRch., 26 
QxR; 27 R— Q sq., 27 Q— QBsq.: 28 PxP, 28 Rr— K3; 29 Q— Q4, with a 
Pawn ahead and the superior game. 

{k) The exchange of Rooks was disadvantageous. He had still slightly the better 
game, with his doubled Rooks and his King secure, while that of the adversary' 

154 

GrNRBEBGS GAMES. 

:^OExE 
31K— Kt2 
:J'2E— Kt2 

33 Kt— B2 

34 Br-K2 
3oP— QKt4 

36 P-QE4 

37 P— E5 

38 P— Kt 5 
39Kt— Kt4 
40 Kt— Q5 
41PxP 

42 Kt— B7 

43 K— B3 

44 Kt— Q5 

45 R— K7 ch. 
46ExKt 

47 Kt— K3 

48 E— Q6 ch. 

49 Kt'-B2 

50 K— Q3 

51 E— Q5 
52ExKtP 
53 E^K5 

was rather fxposetl. P — (jBS, followed by the systematic atlvance of tlu' 
Fawns on the K side, was likely to increase his advantage. 

(/) He ouglit to have brought his Knight at once to the succor of his threatened 
Q wing by Kt — CJ2. White evidently c<»uld not then advance P — QB4 on 
account of the i-eply Kt — Kt3, and if 36 P— B.). 36 Kt— Kt sq., and again the 
march of the adverse Pawns is -topped, for White cannot play P — Kt.") on 
account of the rejoinder K — Q4. Black's Knight may afterward enter at QB.'J 
or QR3, with a good game. 

(in) Also a move lost. The Itook at this place only gives White an attacking 
opportunity later on. 

(M)An extraordinarj- blunder which finally loses a game that was well played in 
the main by Blac-k. Kt — Kt 3(j., followed by Kt — R3, was the right play and 
would have most likely led to a draw. After this White wins easily, though 
Black makes a stout resi.stance. 

(0) For, obviously, if 77. . .Rx P; 78 Kt— K7 ch., and wins. 

ExEch. 

54 E— K2 

K -B4 

Kt— K5 

55 Kt— K3 ch. 

K— K4 

K— B2 

56 Kt— Q5 (lisch 

. K— Q3 

E-Q8 

57 R— KB2 

K— K4 

Kt— B3 

58 P— E4 

E E8 

P— KKt 4 (/) 

59 E— K2 ch. 

K-Q3 

E— Q6 (in) 

♦JO Kt— K3 

E— E6 ch. 

P-E4 

61 K— K4 

K— K3 

Kt-Q2 

62 E QKt2 

E E3 

E-Q3 

63 Kt— Q5 

E-E6 

P— B3 

64E— Kt6c.h. 

K— B2 

PxP 

()5 Kt— K3 

E— E2 

P— B4 

66 E QB6 

E E4 

E QB3 

67 K— K5 

R— E6 

R— QE3 («) 

68 E— B7 ch. 

K— K sq. 

K— Kt3 

(59 K— K4 

E-E4 

ExP 

70 K<^Q5 

E— E6 

E E7 

71 ExP 

ExP 

K— B2 

72 K— K5 

P— Kt4 

E^E4 

73 K— K6 

K-Q sq. 

Er-E5 

74 E— E5 

K— B sq. 

E— E4 

75 P— B5 

PxP 

P— Kt 3 

76 P— B6 

E— Kt3ch. 

K— B3 

77 K— K5 

Eesigns. (o) 

GUN8BERG8 GAMES. 

155 

For the game in the first round between the same players, which 
is given on page 1, Mr. Gunsberg was awarded the special prize for 
the best game in the tournament. 

(iratne No. IIH. 

Played in the second round, April 16tli. 

PKTROFFS DEFENCE. 

ir/iife 

nUfck 

I. (tunsberg. 

J. Miisuii 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKtH-B3 

KKt— B3 

3P Q4 

KtxP 

4PxP(fl) 

P-Q4 

5 B— Q3 ih) 

Kt— B4 

6 0— 0 

KtxB 

7QxKt 

B— K2 

8 Kt— B3 

P— QB3 

9Kt— K2 

P— B3 (c) 

lOKt— Kt3 

PxP(rf) 

llKtxP 

0-0 

12 P— B3 

13 Kt— B3 
14B— Kt5 
15 QR— K sq. 
16Kt— R4 

17 Kt (R4)— B5 

18 KtxB 

19 Q— 113 (e) 
20R— K3 
21BxKt 

22 KR— K sq. 
23RxR 

Given up 

Ki^Q2 
Kt— B3 
Q— Q3 
B-Q2 
QR— Ksq. 
BxKt 
Q-Q2 
K— R sq. 
B— Qsq. 
BxB 
RxR 
P— KKt 3 
as drawn. (/) 

(a) A B— Q3. 4 P— Q4; 5 Ktx P is sui)erioi-. 

(b) I'x P in passing was better. The opponent obtains a slight superiority after 
this. 

('?) Against a modern master such a far-advanced Pawn like the one at K.5 
becomes a source of weakness. Black adopts the proper course to free his 
game and to obtain the superior po.sition. 

Ul) But this spoils the effect of his la.st good move. He ought to have Castled first, 
with the intent of following it up by QB — KKt.") or Kt— Q2, which would have 
c-omi)elled White to exchange Pawns, with a difference of position considerably 
in Black's favor. 

(c) Whitf would have done l)ett.er simply to retreat Kt — (j4. The trap which he 
h«ys here, namely, bj' threatening Bx Kt, followed by Kt— R6 ch., was sure to 
be seen by his clever opi>onent, and he only compromises his position for the 
end ill;;. 

(./■) We think tliat Black had a slight advantage for the ending with the majority 
of Pawns on the Q side anil Bishop against Knight after 24 Kt — Q4, 24 Q x Q; 
i."> KxQ. J.") 1{— K s<|.; ao 11— K:(. 20 R— K2. It was probably not sufficient 
to win. but h<' could run no risk, for his part, in trying further conclusions. 

156 

GUNSBERGS GAMES. 

Game No. 119. 

Played in the second round, April 24th. 

DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
I. Gunsberg. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3Kt^B3 
4B— Kt5 
6 0—0 
6 K— K sq. 
7BxKt(a) 
8P-Q4 
9QxP(6) 

10 Q— Q3 

11 Kt— Q sq. 

12 P— KR3 
13KtxKt 
14 Q— KKt 3 
15P— R3 

16 Q— QB3 
17B— K3 
ISKtxQ 
19Kt— R4 
20P— QKt3 

21 Kt— Kt2 

22 Kl^-Q3 (c) 

Black 
J. Mason. 

P— K4 

QKt— B3 

Kt— B3 

B— Kt5 

0—0 

P— Q3 

PxB 

PxP 

B— QB4 

K^-Kt5 

P— QR4 (c) 

K<H-K4 

PxKt 

P— B3 

B— K3 

Q— Q5 

QxQ 

B— Q3 

KB— Kt sq. (</) 

R— Kt4 

il(Kt4)— Ktsq. 

P-R6 (/) " 

23 P— QKt 4 

24 QK^B sq. 
25Kt— Kt2 

26 Kt— Q3 

27 KR— Q sq. 
28R— Q2 

29 K<^Kt 2 

30 P— QB4 

31 P— B5 
32P— R4 
33 P— Kt 3 
34BxR 

35 K— B sq. 

36 B— K3 

37 K— K2 

38 Kt— Q3 

39 Ki^Kt 2 
40R^B3 
41 B— B sq. 
42K<H-B4 
43RxB 

44 B— Kt 2 
45R— B3 

Given up 

K— B2 
B— B5 
B— K3 
B— B5 
P— Kt4 
P— R4 
B— K3 
P— Kt 5 
B— K2 
R— Qsq. 
RxR(fir) 
B— Kt6 
R — Q sq. 
R^QR sq. 
R— Qsq. 
B— K3 
B— Kt6 
R— QR sq. 
B— K3 
BxKt 
R— Qsq. 
K— K3 

as drawn. 

(a) A drj', dull game is the result of this exchange, and the opponent, with hi.s two 

Bishops and the rather stronger centre, though he has a double<l Fawn, keeps 

the draw more sure in hand. 
(6) Kt X P seems preferable. 
(c) n...R— Ksq.; 12 P— KR3, 12 Kt— K4; 13 KtxKt. 13 RxKt kept his Q 

centre more compact and was likely to give him an advantage in the end. 
{(t) Well played. It was very important for Black to pn-vent or delay B — B5 or 

P — QKt 8, followed by P— B4 on the part of the adversary, and," as will be 

seen, he judiciously leaves his (jR at R sq. with tlie object 'of advancing his 

QRP later on. 
(e) If P— QR4, the answer KB— QKt 5, followed by B— BC, would force the 

exchange of the Knight, and on account of Bishops remaining of opposite 

colors a draw will be ea.sily effected. 
(/) An excellent move that weakens White's Pawns on the Q wing, at leasrt for 

attacking purposes. 
{(J) The game is simplified and practically blocked for either side in all directions. 

Neither player can hope to open the game without much weakening his 

position, and a draw is the natural result. 

OTJNS6EBO 8 OAKES. 

157 

Game Xo. 130. 

Played in the first round, March 27th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

WMte 

Black 

1. Gunsberg. W. H. K. Pollock. 

1 I'— K4 

2 KKt-B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
5P— Q3 

6 B— Kt 3 
7PxP 

8 P— QR4 (ft) 

9 O— O (c) 

10 R— K sq. 

11 QKi^Q2 
12P— R3 
13QxB 

14 KJr-K4 

15 B— QB4 

16 B— K3 (d) 
17PxKt 
18BxP 
19B— B4 

P— K4 
QK1^B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
P— QKt4 
P-Q4 (a) 
KtxP 
P— Kt5 
B— K2 
Q-Q3 
B— Kt5 
BxKt 
R— Qsq. 
Q-Q2 
0—0 
KtxB 
Kt— R4 (e) 
Q-K3 
KtxB 

20PxKt 
21Q— B5 

22 P— QKt 3 

23 QR— B sq. 
24Q— B3 

25 Ki^Q2 

26 Kt— B4 
27Q— K2 

28 K— R sq. 

29 R— B sq. 
30R— B2 

31 QB^KB sq. 
32P— Kt4 
33PxP 

34 K<^K3 (h) 

35 K— Kt 2 

36 K— R sq. 
37K— Kt2 
38 K— R sq. 
39RxR 

40 Q— B2 (0 

41 Kt— B5 

QxP 
P— KB3 
Q-B3 (/) 
P— Kt3 
P— B4 
Q— B6 
P— K5 
B— B4 
R— Q4 
P— B3 
B— R2 
B— Kt sq. 
P-B5 (^ 
RxP 
P— Kt4 
Q— K4 
Q— B6 
Q— K4 
R— B6 
PxR 
R— Q5 
R— K5 

(a) The defence is similar to the one adopted by Morphy against Aiiderssen, but 
the fonner did not play P — Q4 until he had developed KB — QB4 in reply to 
White's P — QB3. The difference of position is, we l^lieve, greatly in favor of 
White, who, we hold, ought to obtain at least a slight advantage anyhow if 
Black attempt an early advance of P — Q4. 

(6) Quite in accordance with modern principles of play. Bv compelling the 
adversary to advance a Pawn further into his own camp he Is likely to obtain 
an advantage in the end. 

(c) White could have won a Pawn here by 9 Q— K2, 9 Q— Q3; 10 P— Q4, 10 P— 
B3; UPxP, llPxP; 12 KtxP, 12 Ktx Kt (or 12. . .Qx Kt; 13 Bx Kt, etc.); 
13 P— KB4, etc. 

(rf) Superfluous. 16 BxP, 16 Kt — Qo; 17 Q — Qsq. were good enough to leave 
White with an advantage. 

(e) Remarkably clever. 

(/) Obviously, if Q x BP, he would lose the Queen by Kt x P ch. 

(g) A very interesting attack is here formed by Black, which called for the greatest 

caution of the opponent to meet its difficulties. 
(A) If 34 B X R, 34 Q X P ch. ; So K— Kt scj. (or 33 Q— R2, 3.5 Q x Q eh. ; 36 K x Q, 

36 P— Kt 4, etc.), 85. . . B X R, and if 36 R X B, 36 Q- Kt 6 ch., and win.s. 
(I) Best. If 40 R X P, 40 R— Q8 ch. , and wins. 

158 

OUN8BERG 8 GAMES. 

42Q-Q2(./) 
43QxPch. 

44 Q— R6 ch. 

45 Q— Kt 5 cli. 

46 Q— R6 ch. 

K^K7 47 Q— Kt 5 ch. K— B sq. 

K— B sq. 48 Q— Q8 ch. K— B2 

K— Kt sq 49 Q— Q7 ch. K— B sq. 

K— B sq. 50 Q— B8 ch. K— B2 

K — Kt sq. Drawn. 

(J ) 15<)tli iwrties have exercised their ingenuity in attempts to win. but each player 
was (•art»f*ill\- on the watch, and a forced draw is now the result. 

Ciaine No. 131. 

Played in the second round, April 20tli 

qV KKN'-S FI ANCH KT'r< ). 

White 

VV. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 
2 P-Q4 
3B— Q3 
4 P— QB3 (h) 
5P— Q5 

6 Kt— K2 (D 

7 0—0 {(i) 
8BxP 

9 Kt— Kt 3 
lOKtxKt 

11 Q— R5 ch. 

12 B— Kt 5 
13BxB 

14 QK1^Q2 
15Ki^Kt5(p) 
16QxPch. 
17 P— KR4 
18PxR 
19P— KKt3 
20Q— R3 
21 P— KB4 

llhcl,- 

1. GuusIhm'lc. 

P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
QK<r-B3 {it) 
P— K4 
QKt— K2 
P— KB4 
PxP 
KKt— B3 
KtxB 
BxQP 
Kt— Kt 3 
B— K2 
QxB 
0—0 

Br-B4 (/) 
K— B sq. 
RxKt 
xP 
:— B2 
R— KRsq. 
KtxP(sr) 

22 R X Kt ch. P X R 

23QxPch. (/,i K— Kt3 
24 Kt— K4 PxP (/•) 

Position after Black's •.J4th move 

PxP 

Black — I. ()uiisl)erg. 

lA 

I^By 1 

fm f?p wm th 

m M 

f^ .^ 

Wliite— W. H. K. Pollock. 

25 Br-K sq. Q— Ko 

26Kt— B2 (/) Q— R8cL. 
27KtxQ RxKt mate. 

Kii) k novel idea in this opening. Most practitioners of thi.s debut develop \\\\^ 
Knight at Q2 after advancing P— QJ^. or else they play P — K;? and P — QB4 
first, ]>efore bringing out QKt — BH. 

Kh) Best, undoubtedly. If Kt — K2, Black may answer Kt — Kto and exchangt' 
the important KB. 

Ki'\ A weak move. He ought to have foreseen the opponent's clever i-eply, which 
either breaks White's centre or much relieves the cluster of Black's pieces oii 
• the K side, i* -QB4 was the right play. 

GUNSBERO'S GAMES. 159 

t'/) Ih» gives up a Pawn (lesif;n<Mlly, but tlu' attack on which lie speculates as a 
com I )en sat ion proves unsatisfactory. His best plan was now either 7 P— KB3, 
in which case Black could not aclvancc* P— Bo on account of the rejoinder 
S F* — KKt 8, or he might have played al>o 7 P x P, whereupon, after 7. . .B x P: 
X Kt— Kt3. Black dare not pIav*H. . . B x KtP on account of 9 Q— Hr» ch., 9 
P— Kl3; 10 PxP, 10 KKt-BH; 1 1 P—Kt 7 disch., 11 Kt x Q; 12PxK, 
queening, and wins. 

if] The upshot of all this is that White 1ms lost a fine centre Pawn and remains 
with the inferior position. 

(/*) Black might have bwMi satisfied with his plain winning advantage, which he 
could have retained simi)ly by P — KK3, but he plays for higher game, and on 
the merits of position judgment his aim was as correctly measured as it was 
ingeniously ( onceived. 

<//»The moves on both sides from the l.jth. the point of our bust comment, were 
proljably foreseen by both players, as they w^ere pi-etty nearly forced for each 
party. At this critical juncture, however, Black impetuously goes astray in 
the pursuance of his attack. He could have made much more sure of his 
victory by 21...Q— K2, threatening Q — B4 ch., whereupon, after 22 PxP 
diseh.! 22K— Ktsq.; 23Q— Kt4, 23 Kt x P; 24 Q-g4 (there seems nothing 
better), 24. . .R— KH ch.; 25 K— B2, 2.-) R— 117 ch. Black wins with ease 
accordingly by R — Kt 7 ch. or Kt — (^6 disch. 

(/*) White allows hims<*lf to l)e unduly intimidated. 28 Q x R was his only chance, 
and, moreover, a goo<l one for drawing purposCvS. The game must then have 
proc^eeded: 23. . Qx P ch.; 24 K— B sq., 24B— Kt7ch. (if 24...P— B6; 25 
Q— Roch., 25K— B3, best; 26 Q— R sq., etc.); 25 K— K2, 25Q— K6ch.; 26 
K— Q «!., 26 Q— Kt H ch. ; 27 K -B2, 27 Q x R (thus far we follow in the main 
variation the analysis of the Deutsche ii^ehachzeitung)^ and now W^hite has a 
fair chance of drawing by 28 Q — R2. 

(/) A very neat surprise. Of course White dare not take the Queen, for he is 
mate<l by R — R8 ch. See diagram. 

(j)Leaving open a little brilliant which his clever opponent immetl lately seizes 
upon, but there was no salvation for his game under any drcum stances. 

Game No. 122. 

Played in the first round, April 9th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White Black 6 Q— K2 Kt^Q3 

J. W. Showalter. I. (iunsberg. J B xKt KtP>^B^ 

1 P— K4 P— K4 9 Kt^-B3 ih) O— O 

2KKt— B3 QKt— B3 10 B— B4 P— Q4 

3 B— Kt 5 Kt— B3 11 P x P eu pass, (c) 

4 0—0 KtxP PxP 
5P— Q4 B— K2 12KII— Ksq. P— Q4 

(a) The authorities justly prefer 8. . . Kt— QKt 2. 

(6) For now, after 9 Q— K4, 9 P— Kt3; 10 B-B4, White would have obtained the 
superior position. 

(/r> It was not good to relieve Black of his double! Pawn. R— Q sq. was l>y far 

160 

OUN8BEBO 8 OAUES. 

13 QB— Q sq. 

14 Kl^K4 
15QKt— Kt5 
16Q— 03 
l7Kt-^3 
18B— K5 

19 Kt— Q4 
20BxKt 
21 B— K5 
22QxP(</) 
23BxB 
24RxBch. {/) 
25 Q-Q2 
26QxP 
27Q— Kt5ch. 
28QxQcL 

B— K3 
KB— K aq. 
B— Q2 
P— KB3 
P— Kt4 
P— Kt5 
KtxKt 
P-QB4 
B— KB3 
BxB 
B— B3 (e) 
QxR 
PxKt 
Q-K3 
Q— Kt3 
PxQ 

29PxP 
30 K— B sq. 
31K— Kt2 

32 R— B sq. 

33 K— B sq. 
34P— R3 
35P— Kt4 
36P— QR4 

37 P— Kt 5 

38 Br— R sq. 

39 K— Kt sq. 

40 K— B sq. 

41 K— K sq. 
42P— R6 

43 K— B sq. 

44 Resigns. (//) 

R— Ksq. 
B— Kt4ch. 
R— K7 
B— B3 cli. 
B— B6 
P— B5 
P— B6 
R— Q7 
R-Q5 

R— QKt 5 (,(/) 
P— Kt4 
R— Kt7 
RxQBP 
R— K7 ch. 
P— B7 

hotter, and his subsequent plan of action should have been Kt— QR4, followed 

accordingly by P — QB4 or by B — K3, with the view of entering with the 

Knight at QB5. 
(rf) White overlooks the adversary's deep design, and he falls into a snare with 

this tempting move that costs a piece. 23 BxB, 32 QxB; 33 Q — Kt3 whs 

his best play and left the game about even ; for if 23. . .Qx P; 24 Kt — B4, 

followed by P — KR3, would give White a good attack, 
(e) Profound and most beautiful. 
(/) If 24 Q X Q, 24 KR x Q, and must win a piece. 
Kg) With a piece ahead it was easy to win, but there is mastery in the manner in 

which Black stops the adverse Pawns and confines the 'hostile King in a 

mating position, which is brought about at the end. 
(A) For White will play next R— Q7. 

Game No. 123. 

Played in the second round, May 5tb. 

GIUOCO 

PIANO. 

WTiite 

Blach 

9 0— K sq. 

I. Ounsberg. 

J. W. Showalter. 

10 Q Kt3 

11 B Kt3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

12Kt— Kt5 

2KK1^B3 

QKt— B3 

13 P QR3 

3B B4 

B B4 

14 P— KR4 

4P— Q3 

P— Q3 

15R— B2 

5B K3 

BxB(a) 

16 R— Q sq. 

6PxB 

Kt— B3(6) 

17 B R2(rf) 

7 0-^0 

0-0 

18 Kt— B3 

8Kt-B3 

Kt^K2 

19 Kt— Q2 

P— B3 
P— QKt4 
Kt^Kt3 
P-QR4 
R— R2 
B— R3 
P— B4 
P— B5 (c) 
P— R3 (e) 
Q— Kt3 
P-Kt5(/) 

OCN8B1 

SBO 8 OAMKR. 

BxKt 

32R-QBBq. 
33 P— B4(m) 

P— Kt6 

Q— B3 

K— B2 

QxKt 

34R-B3 

R— Kt2 

K-Rao") 

35 P— B5 

R— B2 

QRxB(*) 
K— Ktsq. 

36 P— Q4 
37RxP 

QPxP 
R— K2 

RxR 

38P Q5 

R-Kt2 

Q-Q2(0 

39 K— K2 

K— K sq. 

40R— B6 

K-Q2 

PxP 

41 K Q3 

R^K^* 

R-R2 

42 K— B3 

R-<JB2 

43KxP 

R^B7 

161 

20KtxP(^) 

21Kt-R4(A) 

22BxB 

23 BxKt (j) 

24BxP 

25 QxKt ch. 

26BxB 

27Q— K6 

28QxQ 

29PxP 

30 Er-KB sq. 

31 K— B2 

(a) The doubling of the adverse Pawn opens the opponent's KB file, but we 
believe the advantages are equalized, and the move in the text may be adopted 
with safety. 

(6) It is also a good plan to play Kt — QR4 and to get rid of the adverse KB. 

(c) The plan of attack pursued by Black is original and ingenious. As far as the 
present game goes to show, it is well worthy of further practical trials. 

(d) We would have preferred exchanging Pawns, with the view of instituting a 
centre attack as a set-off for his weak Pawns. 

(e) Black, after having patiently and judiciously left the K side to take care of 
itself, imperils a good game with undue precautions against an imaginary 
danger on the K wing. The move adopted only weakens the K side, whereas 
17...P— QKt5; 18 Kt— K2, 18 Q— B sq., threatening also Q— Kt5, would 
have given him an excellent game on the Q side without the least danger to 
his other wing. 

(/) He resorts at last to this manoeuvre, which would have been advantageous to 
him a few moves ago. And it is now not alone too late, but ouite a failure, 
owing to his opponent having cleverly utilized time to biing his KKt, that 
previously stood a useless sentry on the K side, to the succor on the threatened 
Q wing. 

(gr) A very fine masterstroke, especially in conjunction with White's next move. 

(h) When it comes to the combination point, Mr. Gunsberg's play can only very 
rarely be improved upon for depth and ingenuity. It was most important to 
get this Knight out of the way, or else Black could afterward gain time and 
preserve his piece ahead by P x Kt or PxP. The next few moves will show 
how beautifully White has provided in advance for this critical jimcture to 
get Black's Queen out of play. 

(i) In keeping with his brilliant forecast. 

0)lf 23...PxKt; 24QxKtch., 24K-~Rs(^.; 25QxRPch., 25 K— Ktsq; 26 
R — KB sq., followed by B — B8, and wins m a few moves. 

(k) Best. If Kt — ^R sq., the reply B — QKt 8 wins a third Pawn, with an irresist- 
ible attack. 

(/) A desperate attempt of a diversion by 27. . .Px P would have been equally 
useless after 28 Rr-KB sq., 28 P x P; 29 Q x R ch., 29 K— R2; 80 Q— B5 ch. 
(it is noteworthy, however, that if 80. . .Q-— Kt8, an apparently good move, 
then 80. . .Q— R8; 81 P— QB4, 81 P— R5, foUowed by P— R«, gives Black good 
chances of a draw), 80. . .K— R sq.; 81 Q— B8 ch., 81 K— R2; 82 R^B7, 82 
P — Kt 8, queening ch. ; 88 K — R2, and wins. 

(m) The rest is caution and end game science combined on the part of White, who 
has obviously a won game, while Black can only struggle tenaciously against 
hope. 

162 

OUNSBERO 8 GAMES. 

44R— B2 

R— B8 

47 K Q5 

R— R4 

46K— B4 

R-KR8 

48 R KB2 

R— Kt4 

46P Q6 

RxP 

* 

49 K— B6 

Resigns. 

(iamt) 

No. 124. 

Played in the first round, April 9tli 

• 

RUY 

LOPKZ. 

White 

Black 

35 PxP 

BxP 

J. Tanbenhaus. 

I. Gunsberg. 

36 Kt (K3)— B5 

37 R— R sq. 

B Bsq. 
B— QB4 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

38 Kt K3 

B K2 

2 KKt— B3 

QK1^B3 

39 Kt^B4 

Rr-QB4 

SB— Kt5 

P— QR3 

40 KtxP 

RxP 

4B B4 

K1^B3 

41 Kt (R5)— B6 

42 R^Kt sq. 

R— R6 

50 0 

KtxP 

K— B2 

6P— Q4 
7Q K2 

B— K2 

43KtxB 

KxKt 

P— B4 (a) 

44K— Kt2 

B^Q6 

8PxP 

0—0 ^ 

45R— Kt4 

B— Q2 

9B— Kt3ch. 

K— R sq. 

46 K— B sq. 

R-Q7 

10 B— Q5 (6) 
llBxKt 

Kl^Kt6{c/ 

47 K— K sq. 

R— R7 

PxB 

48P— R4 

P— R4 0) 

12QxP 

P-Q4 

49 P— B3 

P— Kt3 

13PxPenpa88. 

BxP 

50 Kt— K2 

B— Bsq. 

14 B Kt5 

B— KB4 

51R— Kt6 

R— R3 {k) 

15 Q X Kt (d) 

BxQ 

52RxR 

BxR 

16BxQ 

QRxB 

53 Kt--B4 

K— B2 

17 P— QB3 

B-Q3 

54K— Q2 

B— B sq. 

18 QKt— Q2 

B— B5 

55 K— K3 

K— B3 

19 Kt— Kt 3 

R— Q3 

56 Kt— Q3 

B— B4 

20 KR— K sq. 

R^R3 

57K<^Kt4 

B— Bsq. 

21 QK<^Q4 

B-Q2 (e) 

58K— B4 

B— B4 

22Br-K7 

B— B sq. 

59 Kt— Q5 ch. 

K— K3 

23 QR^K sq. 

B— Q3 

60Kt-K3 

K— B3 

24Br-K8 

K— Kt sq. 

61Kt— Q5cL.(/) 

K— K3 

26 P— KKt 8 

P QB4 

62 Kt— B3 (m) 

K Q3 

26 Kt— QB2 

P— QKt4 
KxR 

63K— Kt5 

K— K3 

27RxEch. 

64Kt— K2 

K— B2 

28 Kt— K3 

P— R4 

65 Kt Q4 

B Kt8 

29Kt— Kt5 

P— B5 

66 P— B4 

B— Q6 

30 P-QR4 (/) 

B K2 

67 P— B5 («) 

B— Kt8 

31 Kt-B3 

PxP 

68PxPch. 

BxP 

32KtxP 

B— R3 

69 Kt— K2 

K— Kt2 

33 Kt— K3 ((7) 

Br-R4 (h) 

70 Kt— B4 

Resigns. 

34 Kt— Q4 (t) 

P— R6 

cunsberg's games. 163 

(a) The innovation cannot be recommended. 

(ft) White could have obtained here a powerful attack by 10 QKt — B8, and if 

10...KtxKt; llPxKt 11 P— Q3; 12 R^Q sq., etc. Or if 10. . Ktr— QB4; 

11 R— Q sq., 11 P— Q3; 12 B— KB4, etc. 
(<?) The sacrifice of the Pawn was neither necessary nor judicious, and he could 

have played Kt — QB4 with much greater safety.' 
{d) Well played. He keeps his Pawn ahead, with d good game. 
{e) Loss of time, as immediately shown. 
(/) Excellent play which breaks the adverse Q wing. 
(f/) He could not capture the RP at once on account of the rejoinder B — Q sq., 

which left the Knight no escape, but better was Kt (KB3) — Q2, threatening R 

— K5 or R — K4, always keeping the RP attacked and preventing the advance 

of the other Pawn. 
(A) P — R6 at once was preferable. 
(i) For 34 I^QR sq., 34 B— Kt4; 85 Kt— Q4 would have stopped the advance 

and gained time besides with the entrance of his Knight. 
(J) Black has played remarkably well against the large odds of a Pawn for a 

draw, and he could have accomplished his object but for this unwise move 

which creates holes on the K side, into which afterward the White King enters 

with effect, as will be seen. He ought to have confined himself to moves of 

his King and Bishop without touching either Pawn, and with ordinary caution 

the game was drawn. 
(A) After 51...B— B4; 52 Kt— B4, 52 K— B2; 58 R— Q6, followed by Rr--Q2, 

White's King would also be released. 
(/) A highly instructive position of rare occurrence in actual play. Had White 

exchanged Knight for Bishop, he could only draw, albeit he was a clear Pawn 

ahead and all pieces were exchanged, 
(m) Masterplay. It forces the decisive entrance of his Knight at Kt 5, or else a 

passed KP, which equally wins. Obviously, he intends next Kt — K4, which 

will accomplish one of the two objects. 
(n) A most skilfully-conducted ending. 

Game No. 125. 
Played in the second round, May 8tli. 

QUEEN'S GAMBIT DECLINEI). 

White Black 4B— Kt5 B— K2 

5BxKt(a) BxB 
I. Gunsberg. J. Taubenhaus. g p -g^g ^ p Q']Ti q /7,\ 

IP— Q4 P— Q4 7Kt— B3 B— Kt2 

2P— QB4 P— K3 8PxP PxP 

3KKt— B3 KKt— B3 9 R— B sq. P— QR3 (c) 

(a) As usual, we believe that the two Bishops have the advantage, and we, there- 
fore, consider the exchange inadvisable. 

(6) We would have preferred 6. ..PxP; 7BxP, 7 O— O; 8 Kt^BS, 8 P— B4 ; 
and if 9 P X P, 9 Q — R4, with a very good game. 

(c) Unnecessary, and therefore not commendable, for, on general principles, the 

164 

OUNSBEBOS OAHE8. 

10 B— Q3 
110—0 

12 Kt— K2 

13 Kt— B4 
14Q— Kt3 

15 KB— Q sq. 

16 K^-K2 

17 Ki^Kt 3 

18 Kt— B sq. (e) 
19P— KR3 

20 Kt (B3)— Q2 
21B— K2 
22B— B3 
23PxP 
24P— R3 
25 Q— Q3 
26KtxP 
27RxB 
28QxB 

Kt— Q2 
0—0 

P— Kt3 (d) 
B— K2 
K1H-B3 
B— Q3 
R— Ksq. 
Kt-Kt5 
P— KB4 
Kt— B3 
R— K2 
R— Bsq. 
P-B4(/) 
PxP 
K— Kt2 
P-B5 (gr) 
RxKt 
PxR 
R— Q2 

29 Q— K5 
SORxRch. 
31PxB 
32Q— B3 
33QxQ 

34 Kt— Q2 

35 K— B sq. 
36P— Kt3(t) 

37 K— K sq. 

38 Kt— Kt sq. 

39 Kt-B3 ch. 
40K— Q2 
41KxP 

42 P— K4 

43 K— K2 (k) 
44KtxP 
45P— Kt4 

Giyen np 

BxB(A) 
QxR 
K— B2 
Q-Q6 
PxQ 
K— K3 
K-Q4 
Kt— Q2 

P-Kt4 0") 
Kt— K4 
K— B3 
KtxPch. 
Kt— Kt8 
KtxP 
PxP, 
P— R3 

as drawn. 

option of moving a Pawn — especially a wing Pawn — one or two squares should 
be reserved as long as possible. 

(d) Nor can we see any utility or urgency for this advance. P — QB4 was in time 
now and for the next few moves. 

(e) If P— KB8 at once, Black would answer Kt x KP. 

(/) At last Black adopts this important attacking move on the Q side. His long 
preparations have done no harm, but hardly any good. For instance, his KB 
was rather better placed in the early part of the opening at KB3 for support- 
ing this sort of an attack than he is now at Q3. 

(ff) Falling into a cleverly-hidden snare, whereby he loses a Pawn. Either B — K4 
or Kt — K5 were the right play. 

(A) If 29...Bxtt; BOBxR, SOQxB; 81 Q— K7 ch., etc. 

(0 This seems loss of precious time, and it also blocks a square which, apparently, 
he could better use for his Knight after 86 K— K sq., and if 80. . .Kt— Q2; 87 
Kt — Kt 8, followed by Kt — Q4, with excellent winnmg prospects. 

(j) A fine move for the purpose of preparing a drawn position. 

(k) He could not afford to allow Black two passed Pawns, and the game is quite 
equal, without leaving either side scope for attack. 

Game No. 136. 
Played in the second round, May 17th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 
L Qunsberg. 
IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 

Black 
J. Taubenhaus. 

P— K4 
QKt-BS 

3B— B4 
4P— B3 
5P— Q3 
6Q— K2 

B— B4 
Kt— B3 
P— Q3 
B— K3 

OimSBEBO 8 GAMES. 

165 

7B— KKt5(a) 

8PxB 

9BxKt 
10QK<r-Q2 
11 O— 0—0 
12P— KKt3 

13 Kt— K sq. 

14 Ki^qS 
ISKtxP 
16 K1^B6 
17Q— Kt4ch. 
18 K— Kt sq. 
19KtxB 
20Kt— Q3 

BxB(6) 

K<^K2 

PxB 

JSX — ^l^U O 

0—0—0 
P— B4 

PxP(d) 
Q— B3 (e) 
Q— B3 
K— Kt sq. 
BxP(/) 
Kt-K2 
K^-B3 

21 K<^Kt4 
22Kt(Kt4)— Q5 
23P— Kt4 
24K— Kt2 
26Q— B5 
26PxKt 
27 Kt— Q7 ch. 
28QxB 
29KtxP 
SOQxQP 
31BxQ 

32 R-KB6 

33 KE— KB sq. 

Q— E6 

K<^R4 

Ki^Kte 

P— KB4 

Kt-B4 

QxBP 

RxKt 

QxP(B4) 

QxKt 

m. 

R— KB sq. 
Besigns. 

(a) Usually White retreats here B — Kt 8, and it is original play to allow the 
doubling of the Pawn, which it seems is amply compensated by opening 
the Q file. Still, we would have preferred playing QKt— Q2, with the option 
of retaking with the Knight in case Black exchange Bishops, or else of gaining 
time by Kt— QKt 8, with the view of playing the QB to Q2 or K8 eventually. 

(6) Much better was Kt — K2 at once. 

(c) Probably Kt — Kt 8, with the view of developing Q-— K2, would have turned 
out better. The Queen is now on a post where she will be somewhat harassed 
by an attack from the adverse Rook on the Q file which, though at present 
covered, will be opened soon. 

(cf)It was imprudent to allow the adverse QKt thus to strengthen the attack 
already formed. B — Kt 8 was the proper move. 

((?) If now 15...B— Kt8; 16 P— B5, 16 PxP; 17 KKtxBP, and uncovers the 
attack alluded to in our note to Black^s 10th move. 

(/) The ^me is of no further value after this blunder which seems to have been 
committed under some misapprehension of the position and probably under 
the influence of a false alarm as r^ards the security of his Queen. After 
18. . .P— KR4; 19 Kt X P (or 19 Q— K4, 19 Q— B8, etc.); 19. . .P— K5, his game 
was inferior, but still defensible. 

BLACKBURNE'S GAMES. 

(TanM" No. 127. 

Plajed in the first ronnd, April 4tb. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

WhUe 
D. G. Baird. 

IP— K4 

2QKt— B3 

3P— B4 

4PxKP 

5Q— B3 

6B— Kt5 

7KtPxKt(a) 

8P-Q4 

9 B— Q3 (b) 
10 B— KR6 (d) 
IIB— Q2 
12 Q— Kt 3 
13PxB(A) 
14B— K2 
15 0—0—0 
16Q— QKt3 
17Kt^R3 
18B-KKt5(t) 
19 B— KB4 
20QxQ 
21K— Kt2 
22 KR— Esq. (A) 
23R— Q2 

24 R— QR sq. 

25 Ki^Kt sq. 

Black 

J. H. Blackbunie. 

P— K4 
KK<^B3 
P-Q4 
KtxP 
QKt— B3 
KtxKt 
B— K2 
O— O 

P— KKt3(c) 
B— QKt 5 (c) 
P— B3 if) 
PxP(flr) 
P— K5 
KtxQP 
Kt-B4 
P— B3 
P— QR4 
Q— Q3 
QxP 
PxQ 
R-R6 U) 
B-Q2 
KR— R sq. 
Kt^Kt2 
B— K3 

26B— Q6 
27 B— B5 
28P— Kt4 
29 P— KR3 
30R— Q4 
31BxP(Kt6) 

32 B— B5 (m) 

33 B— K7 

34 QR— Q sq. 

35 P— Kt 5 
36B— B6 

37 B— Kt 4 

38 K— B sq. 
39PxB 
40K— Q2 
41RxR 

42 Kt— K2 (o) 

43 K— K sq. 
44KxKt 
45 Kt— B sq. 
46KxP 

47 K— Q2 
48B— K7 
49 K— Q sq. 
50BxP 
51B— B5 

52 K— K sq. 

53 Resigns. 

R (R6)— R5 
Kt— B4 
Kt— R3 
K<^B2 
P— Kt3 (0 
Kl^K4 
Kt— Q2 
P— B4 
R (R5)— R4 
Kt— Kt 3 
P-Q5 
Kt— R5 ch. 
BxB 
Kt— B6 
RxP(n) 
RxR 
P— K6 ch. 
KtxR 
R— R8ch. 
P— K7 ch. 
RxKt 
R— KKt8 
R— Kt 7 ch. 
P— B5 
P— B6 
K— B2 
R-Q7 

(2» 

{a) Some of the competitors in this tournament gave preference to QP x Kt at this 
juncture, but we approve of the move in the text as the sronger one. 

blackbubne's games. 167 

(6) 9 Kt — K2 was more in order of development. If Black answered 9. . .P— 

KB3, then 10 Kt— B4, with the better game, 
(c) Not necessary yet, and therefore he ought not to have volunteered to make a 

hole on the K side even for the sake of laying a very ingenious trap. 
id) White allows himself to be induced to this tempting move which causes loss 

of time and of strategical ground as well. 
(e) An ingenious surprise. He threatens to win the Bishop by Q — R5 ch., and if 

White take the Rook, then, of course, B x P ch. would be the answer. 
(/)If Black had reserved this move and played B— R4 first, he was sure of 

getting the better game. 
ig) Practically this .amounts to a bid for a draw. • 

(h) For after 13 B x P instead, we see nothing better than 18. . . P x B, whereupon 

White, of course, may draw by perpetual check or not, at his own option. If, 

however, 13...Q— B3; 14 B—Q3 disch., 14K— Rsq.; 15PxB, 15 P— K5; 

16B-K2, leKtxQP; 17 B— QB3, ITKtxPch.; 18 K-Q2, 18 P— Q5; 19 

K x Kt, 19 Px B; 20 Q x P (QB3), and should win. 
( i) Not as good as simply P x P, which presented no danger whatsoever. 
(J) Black has now obtained three Pawns for the piece, or quite an equivalent, 

with a strong game. 
(k) White might have played for a draw here if he had chosen by 22 B — Q2, 22 

R— Ro, best (if 22. . .P— B4; 23 P— B3, and should win); 23 K— Kt3, 23 R— 

R6ch.; 24 K— Kt2, etc. 
it) This very fine move not alone saves a game that otherwise would have been 

lost, but also gives Black the advantage in a few moves. 
(/rt)R— Q sq,, followed by B— B2 in reply to Kt— Q2, was better. 
in) The latter part is a beautiful example of fine ending play with Pawns against 

a piece on the part of Mr. Blackburne, and this is a remarkably interesting 

point in which Black's mastery assures a quick victory. The capture in the 

text is much stronger than Kt x R. 
(o) If White's Rook try to escape, Black would answer P— Kt 6, and then that 

Pawn would further advance and win the Rook clear. 
( p) After that all is, of course, plain sailing for Black. 

Game No. 128. 

Played in theT second round, May 3d. 
SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

IVhite 

Black 

5P QB3 

B B4 

1. H. Blackburne. 
IP— K4 

D. G. Baird. 
P— K4 

6B— K3 
8 Kfc— B2 (a) 

KKt-K2 

0-0 

BxB 

2 KK^-B3 

QKt— B3 

9KtxB 

P Q3 

3P-Q4 

PxP 

lOKt— 113 

P— QR3 

Q— Kt3 

4KtxP 

Q— B3 

11 QKt— B2 

(a) 8 Kt — Kt5, 8BxB;9QxB, looks stronger, for, seemingly, Black cannot save 
a Pawn, But this is not the case, for after 9. . .Q— K4; if 10 P— KB4, 10 
Kt— Q4 (as played by Mr. Delmar in a game against Captain Mackenzie) ; 
with the preferable game. 

168 

BIAOEBUBNES GAMES. 

12 P— B3 

13 B— B4 ok 
UPxP 
15BxBch. 
16 0—0 
ITKtxKt 

18 Kt— Q5 

19 P— KB4 

20 P— QKt 3 
21Klr-Kt4 
22QxP 
23RxR 
24QxQ 

26 Kt— Q3 
26 Er-K sq. 
27R— K3 
28P— B4 
29 K— B2 

P— B4 
B— K3 
KtxP 
QxB 

KtxKt(&) 

QR—K sq. 

Q— B2 (c) 

Kt— Q sq. 

P— B3 

E^K5(d) 

RxP 

QxR 

IlxQ(e) 

R-B4 

R-Q4 

Kt— K3 

R-Q5 

K<^B6 

30KtxKt 
31K— Kt3 
32R'-K7 
33 R— K8 ch. 
34RxRch. 
35K— B4 

36 K— K5 

37 P— B6 

38 P— KR4 
39P— R5 
40P— Kt3 
41 K— B5 
42P— KKt4 
43 K— K5 
44P— R3 
45K— B5 

RxKtch. 
R— B3 
R— B2 
R— Bsq. 
KxR 
K— K2 
K-Q2 
P— QR4 
K— K2 
P— R3 
K^Q2 
K— K2 
K— B2 
K— K2 
K— Q2 
K— K2 
Drawn. 

(b) Black has skilfully obtained an advantage over his opponent, which, according 
to oar principles, is considerable, especially in the ending, namely, the 
majority of Pawns on the Q side, besides an open KB file. It was better, 
however, not to exchange at this point and to play QB— K sq. first, the 
difference being that if White exchanged Knights, the Rook would retake and 
at once enter in the g;ame, while otherwise it was also better to retain another 
minor piece for manoeuvring until an ending could be forced. 

(c) Q — Q2 was better, for it gave him the option afterward of withdrawing Kt — 
K2 or — Q sq. In the latter case he had the additional advantage that a good 
square was left open for his Knight at KB2. 

(d) Black could run no risk in trpng to win, and he ought to have advanced 
P — Q4. If it came to an endmg, Black's superiority in the centre was of 
greater account than White's majority on the K side. 

(«) The game is drawn now, but still it required the exercise of some skill and 
judgment on each side to hold the balance of position at all points, as will l>e 
easuy seen from the actual play. 

Game No. 139. 

Played in the second round, May 16th. 

PETROFFS 

DKFKNCE. 

White 

Black 

5 KtxP 

B— K2 

D. G. Baird. 

J. H. Blackbume. 

6B— Q3 

7KtxKt 

Kt-B3 
PxKt 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

8 0-0 

0—0 

2 KKt— B3 

KKt— B3 

9 P— KR3 (b) 

Kt^K sq. 

3Kt-B3 

P Q3(a) 

10 Kt-K2 

P Q4 

4P Q4 

PxP 

11K1H-Q4 

B— Q2 

BLACEBURNE 8 GAMES. 

169 

12 P— QB3 

13 K— K sq. 

14 P— QKt4 (c) 
loPxB 
16BxP 

17 B— B3 
18P— B3 
19B— Kt4 

20 P— Kt 3 

21 B— B3 

22 B— B4 • 

23 K— B sq. 
24BxP 

25 B— K5 

26 P— KE4 (g) 
27BxKt 

28 P— B3 

29 Q— Q2 

30 K— Kt sq. (/j) 

R^Kt sq. 
B— QB4 
BxKt 
PxP 
Kt— Q3 
Q— il5 ((/) 
KR-Ksq. 
P— KB4 
Q— B3 
Kt— K5 
B— K3 {e) 

R— Kt2 
Q— R3 
P— Kt4 
B x B ch. 
B— Q4 
P— B5 
PxKtP 

SlQxPch. 
32PxQ 
33K— Kt2(t) 
34KxP 
35K— R4(;) 

36 P— B4 

37 P— B5 
38K— Kt5 
39K— Kt4 
40R— KB2 
41K— B4 
42B— B7 

43 B— K5 ch. 
44B— B7 

45 B— K5 ch. 

46 P— R4 (0 
47B— B7 

48 B— K5 ch. 

49 Besigns. 

QxQ 
Br-KB2 
E^B4 
RxKtPch. 
E— Kt3 
K— B2 
R-E3 ch. 
R— R6 
B— Kt7 
R — Kt sq. ch. 
B-Q4 
K— B3 
K— B2 Ik) 
K— B3 
K— B2 
P— KR4 
K— B3 
K— K2 

(a) White's last move transposed the position into one of a Three Knights Game- 
The only two good moves that are at Black's disposal at this point are 3 . . . B 
— Kt5; or 8...QKt — B3. The move in the text causes obstruction to the 
development of Black's KB. 

(6) Useless waste of time. 9 P— KB4, dnd if 9 . . . P— Q4; 10 P— K5, 10 B— B4 ch. ; 
UK— Rsq., 11 Kt— Kt5; 12Q— Ksq., would have given White a fine 
position. 

(c) A bad error that exposes him to the loss of an important Pawn. 

(d) We cannot see what more Black could expect from this move than from the 
gain of material by the simple R x P. 

(e) Threatening B— QB5. 

if) Black gives up a Pawn for an attack on the K side, but by best play he ought 

not to have recovered its value. 
ig) K— R2 was better. 
(A) White plays with proper caution. K — Kt 2, which is apparently better, would 

have subjected him to much inconvenience on account of the reply P — Kt 5. 
(i) We think that White could legiitmately try for a win by 38 P — B4, followed 

by R — QB3. Even if he had afterward to sacrifice the Rook for Bishop and 

the advanced KtP, he remained sufficiently strong to secure a draw with good 

winning chances. 
U) K — B2 was obviously much better. 
(A) If K— K2, White would answer R— K sq. 
(?) White had no right to expect more than a draw, and, trying to force a win, he 

sets all caution aside, and his King is caught in a mating net which his 

opponent had just gained time to prepare. 

170 

BLAGKBUBNE 8 OAXEB. 

Game No. 180. 

Played in the first round, April 12tli. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

W/itte 
J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

3 B— B4 (a) 
4P-Q3 
5Kt— B3 

6 0—0 

7 Kt— K2 
8B— KKt5(6) 
9B— KE4 

10 P— KR3 (c) 
11KB— QKt 3 
12 P— QB3 
13B-B2 
14 K— R sq. 
ISBxKt 
16KKt— Ktsq. 
17Kt— Kt3 
18K<^R6 
19 Q— B3 
20P— KKt3 

21 P— Q4 

22 K— R2 

Black 
J. W. Baird. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
KKt— B3 
P— QB3 
P-Q3 
0-0 
Q— K2 
P— KI13 
QB— KKt5 
B— K3 (d) 
QK1^Q2 
KB^Ksq. 
B— Kt3 
Kt— KB sq. 
QxB 

P— KKt 4(e) 
Kt— Kt3 
Q-K2 
B— Q sq. 
K— R2 
R— KBsq. 
QR— B sq. (/) 

23 Q— K2 

24 P— KB4 
25PxKKtP 
26RxR 

27 R— KB sq. 

28 Kt— B6 cli. 
29RxB 
30R— B2 

31 Kt-B3 

32 P— Q6 

33 Kt— K sq. 
34Kt— Kt2 
36QxR 

36 Kt— K3 

37 B— Q sq. 

38 B— KKt 4 
39B— R5 
40Q— B5 

41 K— Kt sq. 

42 Q— B6 (*) 

43 Kt-B5 
44QxRPch. 
46 QxB 

46 Q— Kt 6 ch. 

P— KB3 
B— KKt sq. 
BPxP(!/) 
KtxR 
Q— K sq. 
BxKt 
Q-K2 
K^-Kt3 
R— KBsq. 
B— B2 (/() 
• B— K sq. 
RxR(j) 
P— B4 
B— Q2 
Q— Kt2 
B— Ksq. O) 
Q-K2 
B— B2 
Q-QB2 
Kt— R sq. 
BxB 
K— Kt sq. 
Kt— B2 
Resigns. 

( «) P — KB4 is mcstly preferred for the attack here. The move iu the text is. of 

coui'se, quite sound development. 
ib) B — K3 seems much preferable. 
(t>) And this we consider altogether objectionable. 
(rf)For after 10. ..BxKt; 11 PxB, 11 P— KKt 4; 12QB— KKt3, 12 K— Kt 2, 

followed by Kt — R4 and P — KB4, we would have much prefemnl Black's 

game. ' 

(c) We rather like the outcome of Black's game from the struggle for position 

comprised in the manoeuvring of both sides, however, the hole at KR.5, now 

formed, is a little drawback. 16... Kt — Kt8; and if 17 (^ — Q3 (otherwise 

Black would play Kt — B5), 17.. .Q — Kt4 left Black with some superiority that 

would have increased if it came to an ending. 
(/) Useles-s. P — KB8 was much better. 
(ff) Black defends very well. 25. . .RPx P would have been dangerous on account 

of the answer 26 P— KIM and if 26. . .Px P; 37 P x P, 27 Kt x P; 28 Q— Kt 4, 

and wins. 
(A) 32. . . P X P; 38 P X P, 88 R — B8 could not do much harm and anyhow secured 

Black a passed centre Pawn that in the ending might have l>ecome formidable. 

BLACKBUBNE S OAKES. 

171 

(/» His game drifts into inferiority after this exchange which gives White 
Wrtnally command of the open KB file, for Black cannot well offer to 
exchange Queens, owing to the weakness of his QP which in the ending is 
liable to be attacked by the adverse Knight entering at KB5. 

(J) Loss of time. His best defence was now BxB, followed by Kt — B sq. in 
order to play Kt — KB2 ax xoon as possible and thus to cover his weak points. 

<A) White has only been waiting for the adverse Queen to move in order to 
fxrcupy this winning post. 

Game No. 131. 
Played' in the second ronnd, May 13th. 

rEXTKE CK)UKTER GAMBIT. 

WhUe 

Black 

J. W. Bainl. J. H. Blackburne. 

IP— K4 
2PxP 
3 QKt-B3 
4P— Q4 

5 Kt— B3 

6 B— Q3 (h) 
70—0 
8B— K3 
9P— KR3 

lOQxB 
11 Q— K2 
12P— B4 

P-Q4 
QxP 
Q-QE4 
P— KKt3 (a) 
P— QB3 
B— Kt2 
B— Kt5 
Kt— Q2 
BxKt 
KKt— B3 
0-0 
P— K3 

13 P— KKt 4 

14 Q— B2 
15B— Q2 
16QII— Qsq. 

17 Ktr-K2 

18 Kt— Kt 3 (c) 

19 P— B3 
20PxP 

21 R— B sq. 
22B— B3 

23 Kt^K2 

24 KR— Q sq. 

25 P— B5 (rf) 
26PxP 
27Q-R4(/) 

QEr-Q sq. 
Kt— Kt3 
QK<^Q4 
Q— B2 
Kt-Q2 
P— QB4 
PxP 

Kt— Kt sq. 
K<r-QB3 
Q— Kt3 

Br-Q2 

KB— Qsq. 
KPxP 
B— R3 (e) 
BxR 

ia) Mr. Blackburne greatly favors this combination of the King's Fianchetto with 
Centre Counter Gambit. Like in most close games no absolute winning 
advantage can be proved for the first player against this form of defence, but, 
as will oe seen, in the present instance the aspect of White's position looks 
more favorable for a long time, and Black is greatly hampered in his develop- 
ment 

(6) Wliite could improve his game here at once by 6 Kt — K5, with the view of 
supporting the Knight in the centre by P — KB4, or else of playing Kt — QB4 in 
some contingencies. 

(CI No fault can be found with White's development thus far, and he has retained 
a slight advantage in position. However, at this point he allows the opponent 
to open an avenue for attack, which might have b«en closed by 18 P — QB4, 18 
Kt — Kt 8; 19 B— K8, with the superior game. 

Ul) The position was still about even, but this ill-considered advance forebodes 
disaster. 

<e) Naturally, Mr. Blackburne espies the weak point opened to his attack which 
he vigorously directs again.st the same. 

(/)BUick obviously threatened B— K8, and if 27 B— Q2, 27 BxB; 28 RxB, 28 
Kt<Q4)— Kt5, followed by KtxQP. winning. 

172 

BLACKBUBNE S GAMES. 

28RxB 
29B— K4 
30 Q— Kt 3 ch. 
31BxP 
32 Q— B2 
33K<^Kt8 
34 Kt— K4 (g) 
35BxR 

36 K— R2 

37 B— Q2 

38 K— E sq. 

39 P— KR4 

40 B— K sq. 

41 B— KB3 

K1^K4 

42 QxR 

PxP 

43 Q— Kt sq. 

Kt^Kt3 

44Q— R2 

R— K2 

45 Q— Kt sq. 

Q KB3 

46K— R2 

E^K6 

47K— Kt2 

RxKt 

48KxKt 

Q— Kt 4 ch. 

49 K— K sq. 

QxR 

60Q— Q4 

Q— B2 ch. 

51 K— Q2 

Kt{Q4) B5 

52 K— B3 

Kt R4 

53 K— B4 

Q-K2 

54 Resigns. 

RxP 

QxBch. 
QxPch. 
Q— K8 ch. 
K<^Kt6ch. 
Kt— B8 ch. 
Q— Kt6ch. 
Q X B ch. 
P— Kt3 
Q— R8 ch. 
Q— R7 ch. 
Q— K4 
QxQch. 

{!/) An oversight that costs a piece and virtually ends the game. R— KKt sq. 
might have prolonged resistance. 

Game No. 132. 

Played in the first round, April 10th. 

ENGLISH OPENING. 

White 

Black 

H. E. Bird. J. H. Blackburne. 

1 P— QB4 
2P— Q4 
3PxP 

4 KKt— B3 (b) 

5 P— K3 (c) 
6B— K2 

7 Kt— B3 

8PxKt 

9P— QR4 
lOQ— Kt3(fi) 
llBPxP 
12 Q— B2 
13R— R3 

14 Q— Q sq. 

15 0-0 
16B— Kt2 

17 Kt-Q2 

18 P— R5 (e) 
19R— B3 
20 Q— R sq. 

P— KKt3 
P-Q4 
KKt— B3 (a) 
B— Kt2 
0-0 
KtxP 
KtxKt 
Kt— Q2 
P— QB4 
PxP 
Kt— B4 
P— Kt3 
B— B4 
Kt— K5 
R— Bsq. 
Kt-Q3 
R— B2 
P— QKt4 
P— QR3 
RxR 

21BxR 
22Kt— Kt3 

23 B— KB3 

24 Kt— B5 (/) 
25PxB 
26B— Kt4 

27 Q— Q sq. 

28 P— B4 

29 P— B3 (h) 

30 K— R sq. 

31 Q— Q3 

32 Rr-Q sq. 

33 P— Q5 

34 P— K4 

35 P— K5 
36R— QBsq. 
37K— Kt2 
38K— R3(.y) 
39 R^Q sq. 
40P— K6 

41 R-QB sq. 0) 

42 Q— K4 
43P— B5 

Q— Kt sq 
R— B sq. 
B— K5 
BxB 
Kt— B4 
Kt— R5 
B— Bsq. 
P— R4 
Q— R2 (0 
Kt— B4 
B— Kt2 
Q— Rsq. 
Q— R2 
Kt— Q6 
Kt— B4 
P— R5 
Q— Rsq. 
R— Qsq. 
Q— Bsq. 
B— Q5 (k) 
RxP 
Kt-K6 
RxP (to) 

(9) 

BxKt 

50Q— K3 
51 Q Kt6 

P— Kt4 

QxB 

RxP 

P— B3 

62RxR 

QxR 

K— Kt2 

53 Q B6 

Q— B8 ch. 

Q-B8 

54 Eesigns. (w) 

Q— B5 

blackburne's games. 173 

44 R— K sq. 
45BxB 
46RxKt 
47 P— B4 
48R— Q3 
49R— KB3 

(a) A very bold venture so early in the game. 

{b) And it might have been severely punished by 4 Q — R4 ch., 4 B — Q2 (or 4. . . 

Q— Q2; 5 QxQ eh., 5 Kt or BxQ; 6 QKt— B3. Or 4. . .P— QB3; 5 PxP, ,5 

Kt X P; 6 P — K3, etc.); 5 Q — Kt 3, with a Pawn ahead and an excellent game. 
(c) Anyhow 5 Kt — B3, and if 5. . .Kt x P; 6 P — K4 were much superior. 
(«:f)Both this and the foregoing move are weak play and help the opponent's 

development of pieces. 
i^e) This helps the adversary to establish a well-supportable passed Pawn on the 

Q wing. P — KB3, with the view of forming a centre by P — K4, was obvious- 
ly better. 
( X) And now his position is inferior on both wings. He ought to have retreated 

again B — K2, which merely acknowleged loss of time. 
(g) Not of much use, as he has to retreat again afterward. 
(h) It will be noticed that White could not previously capture the QRP on account 

of the rejoinder Q — QR sq. 
{£) Q— R sq. was better. 
(J) This misad venturous movement causes disastrous loss within a few very 

clever moves of the opponent. 
{k) Deep and fine play. 
(/) If 41 Kt— Q7, 41 RxKt; 42 PxR, 42 QxP; 43 K— Kt2, 43 Kt— K6 ch.; 44 

K— Kt sq., 44 Q— R6; 45 Q or R^Q2, 45 Q x BP, and wins, 
(w) Very clever ; for if White reply 44 Q x B, then 44 . . . R x P ch. ; 45 K x P. 45 

Kt — B4 ch., and wins the Queen. After this the opponent becomes exhausted 

from want of fighting material and cannot hold out long. 
(71) For after 54 K — Kt 4 follows 54. . .Q — QB5 ch., winning easily. 

Game No. 133. 

Played in the second round, May 10th. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White Black 

J. H. Blackbume. H. E. Bird. 

3B— Kt2 

P— K3 

4 KKtr-R3 

P-Q4 (b) 

5 0—0 

B K2 

6P— Kt3 

0-0 

7P— QB4 

P— B3 

IP— Q4 P— KB4 

2P— KKt3(a) KKt— B3 

(a) First played by the editor against the late Mr. Wisker in the London Tourna- 
ment of 1873. 

(b) The weakness of Black's centre is now fully established, and his retained KP 
remains a drawback to his position all through. 

174 

BLACKBUBNE 8 GAMES. 

8B--Kt2 

9Kt— B3 

lOKt— B4 

11 P— K3 

12 Kt-Q3 
13Q— K2 
14 P— B5 
15P— QKt4 
16 P— B3 
ITBxKt 
18P— B4 

19 Kt-K5 

20 P— QE4 

21 KBr— Kt sq. 
22B— B8q.(/) 
23Q— KB2 
24Kt-B3 
25Kt— Q2 
26K<^Kt3 

27 Kt— E5 (o) 
28KPxP 
29 P— Kt 5 
30PxP 
31BxP 
32R— E3 

Kt— R3 
B-Q2 
Q— K sq. 
B— Q3 

R— Q sq. (o) 
B— B gq. (rf) 
B— Kt sq. 

K<r-K5 

KtxKt 
Kt-B2 
Q— Kt3 
Q— B3 
P— QI13 (e) 
B— Q2 
Q— R3 
B— K sq. 
Q-B3 
P— KKt4 
B— Q2 
PxP 
B— Bsq. 
RPxP 
PxP 
Q— Kt2 
P— K4 

33QPxP 

Kt— K3 

34B— Q4 

R— B2 

35 B K2 

B— R2 

36 Kl^Kt 3 

B— Kt sq. 

37Kt— Q2 

B B2 

38 K— R sq. 

Q— Bsq. 

39R(Ktsq.) Kt3 

Q-K2 

40 K<^Kt sq. 

B— Kt sq. 

41 Kt— B3 

KtxB 

42QxKt 

B— K3 

43 Kt— Kt 5 

R— QB sq. 

44Rr-QB3 

KR— KB sq, 

45 Kt— Q6 

BxKt 

46BPxB 

Q-Q2 

47K— Kt2 

Rr-B5 

48BxR 

PxB 

49RxP 

Q— Kt4 
K— Kt2 

50E^B2 

51 R (R3)— QB3 

Rn-QRsq. 
Q-Kt8 

62 R B5 

53Q— Kt2 

R^R8 

54QxQ 

RxQ 

55 R— Q2 

Resigns. 

(c) He cannot attempt to release himself bv 12. . . P x P: 13 P x P, IH P — K4, on 
account of 14 P— B5, followed by Q—Kt 3 ch. and Q x KtP. 

(d) The advance of Black's KP has again been indirectly stopped by White's last 
move which defends the QB, and in case of 13. . .Px P; 14 PxP, 14 P— K4 
enables White to play effectively 15 P x P, 15 B x P; 16 Kt x B, 16 Q x Kt; 17 
Kt — Q5, with the superior game. 

{e) After this injudicious advance the fate of Black's game is practically sealed, 
for the point of the advei*se attack on the QKt file has now a double mark. 

(/) It would have saved '\^Tiite time and trouble first to exchange his Knight for 
the adverse QB which was of the same color as the squares on which the 
majority of Black's Pawns were posted, and therefore afforded great pro- 
tection to Black's game, especially at the point at which White intende<i to 
break in, namely, at Black's QKt 4. 

(g) White has manoBUvred most skilfully in order to rectify his omission on the 
21st move, and he has now succeeded in drawing off the adverse QB from the 
protection of White's point of attack at QKt 5. The rest is played by 
White with accuracy and correct judgment, while Black could only make 
desperate attempts of relieving himself by the sacrifice of a Pawn on tlie 32d 
move and on the 47th move by giving up the exchange. But, of course, his 
efforts were of no avail. 

BLACKBURNE8 GAMES. 

175 

Game No. 134. 

Played in tlie first round, March 30th. 

ENGLISH OPENING. 

White 

Black 

0. F. Burille. 

J. H. Blackburne. 

1 P— QB4 

P— KKt3 

2 KKt— B3 

B— Kt2 

3P Q4 

P-Q4 

4 P— K3 (a) 

KK1H-B3 

5 Kt— B3 

0-0 

6P— QKt3 

P— QB4 

7B— Kt2(6) 

PxQP 

SKKtxP 

P— K4 

9K1^B3 

B— Kt5 

10 P— KR3 (c) 

BxKt 

llPxB 

P Q5 

12 Kt— K2 

Kt— B3 

13Kt— Kt3 

PxP 

14PxP 

Q— Kt3 

15 K— B2 

QR-Qsq. 

16 Q— B sq. 

B—B3{d) 

17B— K2 

Kt-Q2 

18 Kt^K4 

19 P— B5 
20Kt— ^6 

21 Q— B4 cli. 

22 qH—q sq. 

23 P— Kt4 

24 P— KR4 (e) 

25 QR— KKt sq. 
26P— R3 

27 P— K4 
28R— R2 
29P— Kt5(/) 

30 Q— Q5 

31 R— Q sq. 
32QxBP 
33B— B3 
34Q— B4 
35QxKt 
36B— Kt4(/() 
37BxQ 

P— B4 

Q-B2 

K1H-B3 

K— R sq. 

Q— K2 

R^Q2 

B— Kt2 

K1^KR4 

P— B5 

Kt— Kt6 

B— B3 

Kt-QR4 

P-Kt3(gr) 

PxP 

KRr-Qsq. 

Kt— QKte 

RxKt 

KtxB 

RxR(t) 

BxB 

(a) 4 P X P is the right move ; for if 4 . . . Q x P; 5 QKt — B8 gains a move, while, 
if 4...KKt— B3; 6 Q— B4 ch., 5 B— Q2; 6Q— Kt3, maintains his Pawn, 
with the superior position. 

(6) If 7 QPx P, 7 Kt— K5 wins the exchange. 

ic) An error on both sides. 10 QEtxQP was quite safe, forif 10. . .P— K.5; 11 Kt 
X Kt ch., 11 B X Kt, and either Q x Q, followed by Kt— Q2, or B x B, followed 
by Q — Q4, would keep the Pawn ahead, with a good game. 

(d) Not of much use. Kt — Q2 was stronger. 

te) White has extricated himself from the inferiority of his opening, with a very 
good game, which he might have maintained by continuing operations on tli« 
Q side, commencing with R— Q2 with the view of doubling Rooks. "With tlie 
present and the next move, which are evidently made for the purpose of 
initiating a K side attack, he only opens one for the opponent. 

iX) Owing to this error his Q wing, which was well fortified, is also loosened, and 
his position in the centre, which had to rely for support on the chain of Pawns 
on the Q side, is broken up in a few moves. 

ig) The enemy is now beaten on the whole line. 

(A) No remedy. If 30 R x R, 30 Q x R; 31 K x Kt, 31 Q— Q6 ch. ; 32 K— B3. 33 
Q — K6 ch., and wins in a few moves. Bat by the move in the text he gives 
his opponent an opportunity for a masterly finish. 

(i) The position is congenial to Mr. Blackbume's brilliant style, and he makes the 
most of it at once. 

176 

BLACEBUBNE 8 GAICES. 

38QxR(i) 
39KxKt 

RxQ 
R— QR8 

40 Resigns. 

(./) If 88 Q— K6. 88 B— B4 ch. ; 89 K— Kt 2 for 39 K x Kt, 89 R (Q sq. )— Q7 mat*), 
39 . . . R— Kt 8 ch. ; 40 K— R3, 40 R— Kt 6 mate. 

Game No. 13.'5. 

Played in the second round, May 24th. 

QUEEN'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 
J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— Q4 

2P— QB4 

3 QKt-B3 

4Kt-B3 

5B— B4 

6P— K3(c) 

7 Rr-QB sq. (d) 

8KBxP 

9 0—0 (e) 
lOB— K2 
11 Kt— K5 
12B— B3 
l3BxKt 
14Q— Kt4 
15 KRr-Q sq. 
16P— K4 
17P— KR4 
18 P— R5 
lOKtxKt 

20 P— K5 

21 P_Q5 
22KtxQP 
23B— K3 
24BxB 
25 P— R6 
26P— Kt4 

Black 

C. F. Burille. 

P-Q4 
P— K3 
KKt-B3 
B— K2 (a) 
P— QR3 (6) 
0—0 
PxP 
P— QB4 
P— QKt4 
P— B5 
B— Kt2 
Kt— Q4 
BxB(/) 
B— KB3 
B— Kt2 
Q— K sq. 
K— R sq. 

Ktr-B3 

QxKt 
B— K2 
PxP 
B— B4 

QR-<J sq. (gr) 
QxB 
PxP 
Q— B sq. 

27QxQ 

28 Kt-B6 

29 P— B3 
30RxR 

31 K— B2 

32 K— K3 

33 P— R3 

34 PxP 
35P— Kt4 
36P— B4 

37 P— B5 

38 Kt^Q5 

39 K<^B4 (k) 

40 P— B6 ch. 
41KtxB 
42RxP 
43R^-Q4 
44R^Q5 
45K— Q4 
46RxP 
47R— Kt8ch. 
48R— Kt7ch. 
49 R-K7 ch. 
50P— QKt5 
51 K— B5 

52 K— Q6 

53 K— B7 

54 K— Kt7 

55 P— Kt'6 

(h) 

BxQ 
B— B4 
RxRch. 
B— Q6 
R— R sq. 
P-QR4 
PxP 
B— B4 (t) 
B-Q6 
K— Kt2 
R— R5 
R^R sq. (./) 
R— R5 
K— B gq. 
PxKt 
K— K sq. 
R^Rsq. 
Rr-Kt sq. 
R— B sq. 
R^B8 
K-Q2 
K— K sq. 
K— B sq, 
R— Kt8 
R^B8 ch. 
R— Q8 ch. 
R— B8 ch. 
R— KKt8 
Resigns, (l) 

(a) In the present variation of this opening this is apt to lose a move, and 4 . . . 
Px P is preferable, for if 5 P— K4, 5 B— Kt5; but if White reply 5 P— K3. 
■'> P — QIi4 makes the game even. 

(b) Rather an unpleasant necessity now. 

blackburne's games. 177 

('-) Havin«( developed his Q side White could have safely played for a block by 
P — QB5» which would have greatly harassed the opponent. 

id) O — O at once was better. 

(«) White allows the adversary the important advantage of a well- supported 
majority of Pawns on the Q side. P x P was his best play, and though Black 
could then exchange Queens, White had a little the better development. 

(/■) Black has played with excellent judgment after the opening moves, but he 
ought to have retaken here with the Pawn in order that the adversary should 
not form a K centre and also for the purpose of protecting the advanced 
QBP once more, thus facilitating early operations with the QKtP and QRP. 

(y) It was better to play the KR thus, if only for the purpose of allowing the KB 
or respectively the Queen after the exchange of Bishops to come to the support 
of the K side at KB sq. 

(/i) Black has come out with a Pawn ahead and a strong passed Pawn on the Q 
side. The exchange of Rooks at this point was unnecessary and hardly good 
policy. Black had more prospects of attack with the two Rooks than with 
one, especially as the adverse Rooks were not well placed. 

(/) Black is wasting very important time. R — Kt5 would have compelled 
White's Knight to retreat to Q5, and then Black could proceed with K — Kt 2, 
followed accordingly by K— Kt3 or P— KR4. 

(J) The loss of another move at this critical juncture is fatal. 38. . . P — R4; 39 P 
— B6ch., 39 K— Kt3; 40 Kt— B4 ch., 40K— Kt4; 4lKtxB, 41PxKt; 42 
R X P (or 42 P X P, 42 K— B4, and should win), 42. . . P x P would have thrown 
the onus of playing for a draw on the opponent, and with hardly much pros- 
pect of success. 

(k) By this mastermove White wins a Pawn in a manner that makes it easy for 
him to proceed to victory in the ending. 

(/) For if 55. . .Rx P; 56 K— B8, 56 R— B5 ch.; 57 R— B7, and wins. 

Game No. 186. 

Played in the first round, April 15th. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

White Bhiek 5PxP KtxP(6) 

J. H. Blackbume. A. Bum. !^ ft^^* B^03 

IP— K4 P— K4 8Q— Q2 0—0 

2QK1^B3 KKt— B3 9 Kt— B3 Kt^B3 

3P— B4 P— Q4 lOB— K2 Kt-Q5 

4 P— Q3 KPxP (a) 11 KtxKt (c) QxKt 

(a) 4 . . . QP X KP is more usual and slightly better. 

(6) If 5. . .B— Q8; 6 Q— K2 ch., 6 Q— K2; 7 Q x Q ch., 7 K x Q; 8 KKt^K2, with 

the superior game ; for if 8. . .P— KKt 4; 9 P— KR4; or if 8. . .Kt— R4; 9 Kt 

— QKt5, 9 P~KKt4; 10 P— KR4, etc. 
(c) On account of his having the majority of Pawns on the Q side White had 

obtained a little the better game, but he never recovers from the careless play 

178 blackbubne's games. 

12BxB QxP 

13 0—0 Q— Q5 ch. 

14K— Rsq. QxB 

15R— QKtsq. P— QKt3 

16 Rr-Kt4 B— K3 

17 R— KR4 QKr-Q sq. 

18 P— Q4 (d) Q— K2 (e) 
19R— R5 R— Q4 
20RxR BxR 
21 P— B4 B— K5 
22B— Qsq. B— Kt3 

23 B— R4 Q— Q3 

24 Q— K3 Q— K3 
25Q— QB3(/) Q— K7 
26B^K8q. QxRP 

27 B— B6 P— QB4 

28 K— Kt sq. P— R3 

29 P— R4 Rr-Q sq. 

30 B— Q5 Q— R5 
31Q— KKt3 R^Q3 
.32 Q— K5 P— R4 
.33'Q— Kt5 R— KB3 
34 Q— K5 Q— B7 
36Q— Kt3 P— B3 
36B— B3 QxP 

at this juncture which throws away a Pawn. A reversal in the order of two 
moves made him all right, and 11 B x B, 11 Q x B; 12 Kt x Kt, 12 Q x Kt; 13 
P — B8 were safe and good enough. < 

(rf) With a Pawn behind White is reduced to trying dodges which, though cleverly 
conceived, do not succeed against such a strong opponent. 

(«) If 18. . .B X P; 19 P— QB4, 19 B— Kt6; 20 Q— Q3, and wins. 

(/) By exchanging Queens he might have isolated the KP, but it would do him 
no good, as he could not afford to exchange Rooks afterward if Black opposed 
R — KB sq., while Black, if allowed to reach B7 with his Rook, would soon 
win either by RxQRP or B— K5. 

ig) White tries to make up by ingenious tactics for the loss of strategical ground, 
but this very rarely succeeds. 

(h) Depriving the opponent of his last hope of winning a piece by B — K4. 
Though Black could afford to lose it and would win with his Pawns, com- 
mencing with P — Kt.5, it was, of course, better to make .shorter and surer 
work of it by the move in the text. 

37 Q KtSch, 

(«/) K-R2 

38R— K8 

QxPch. 

39 K— R sq. 

QxPch. 

40 K— Kt sq. 

Q— Q5 ch. 

41 K— R sq. 

K — R3 

42R-K5 

R^B4 

43R^K8 

R^QB4 

44 Rr-R8 ch. 

B— R2 

45P— Kt3 

Rr-B8 ch. 

46 K— R2 

Q— B7 ch. 

47 B Kt2 

R— B7 

48 Q— Q6 ch. 

P— B3 

49 Q— B4 ch. 

QxQ 

50PxQ 

P— KKt4 

51PxPch. 

PxP 

52 K— Kt sq. 

R B8ch. 

53 K— B2 

K— Kt2(A) 

54 R— QB8 

B B4 

65 R— B7 ch. 

K— B3 

56 R^QKt 7 

P— Kt4 

67R— Kt6 

B-Q2 

58 K— K3 

K— K4 

59 R— Kt 7 

K-Q3 

60 Resigns. 

BLACKBUBNE 8 GAMES. 

179 

Game No. 187. 

Played in the second round, May 15th. 

FRENCH 

DEFENCK 

White 

Black 

8 0-0 

A. Burn. 

J. H. Blackbnme. 

9 B— K2 (c) 
10 K1^Q2 (rf) 
UKtxB 

IP— K4 

P— K3 

2P— Q4 

P Q4 

12QxKt 

3 QKt-B3 

KK<^B3 

13B-B4 

4PxP(a) 

PxP 

14BxB 

5Kt— B3 

K1^B3 

15 Kt— Kt3 

6B— Q3 

B— K2 (ft) 

Given up 

7B— K3 

0—0 

B— KKt5 

K<^K5 

BxB(e) 

KtxKt 

B— Q3 

E— Esq. 

QxB 

as drawn. 

la) Ijeading into the old grooves of this opening, which only equalizes the game, 
whereas after 5 P-~K5, 5 KKt— Q2; 6 P— KB4, 6 P— QB4; 7 P x P, 7 Kt x P 
(or 7...BxP; 8 Q— Kt 4, with a strong attack); 8 Kt— B8, White has the 
better game. 

(6) There is no good reason for giving this the preference over B — Q8. 

(c) Quite safe, with better prospects of an ultimate attack on the K side, was 9 
Kt— K2, 9BxKt; lOPxB, 10 Kt— Kt5; 11 P— B3, 11 KtxB; 12QxKt, 
followed by K— R sq. and R— KKt sq. or else by Kt— Kt3 and QR— K sq. 

iff) We query this move, which, we think, might have subjected White to a slight 
disadvantage. 

C^') For after 10... KtxKt; 11 PxKt, 11 BxB; 12 QxB, 12Kt— R4; 13P— QB4, 
13 P — QB3, we somewhat prefer Black's game, for this reason, that Wliite 
must either keep Queen ana Knight engaged for the protection of the QBP or 
else he must exchange Pawns, in which case the BP will retake and the 
isolated Black Pawn at Q4 will be unassailable, while White's QBP will be 
exposed to attack. If, as a third alternative, White advance P — B5, Black 
will also get the better position by answering P — QKt 3. 

(y") It is all so even that no more than a draw could be expected on either side. 

Qame No. 138. 

Played in the second round, May 20th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
A. Bum 
IP— K4 
2KKi-B3 

BUwk 
J. H. Blackbume. 
P— K4 
QKt^BS 

3B— Kt5 
4 0—0 
5P-Q4 
6KtxP 

Kt-B3 
P— Q3 (a) 
PxP 
B-Q2 

4 a) Not as good as on the previous move, for White's reply forces him to capture 
the Pawn, and thus White's KKt is brought into the centre for the attack ; 

180 

blackburne's oaxeb. 

7 QKi^BS 

8B— K3 

9B— K2 
10 B— B3 (6) 
IIB— Kt5 
12 B— B sq. (c) 
13P— KKt3 
UQxKt 

15 Q— Q sq. 

16 R— K sq. 
17B— Kt2 
18 Q— Q3 
19B— Q2 

20 P— B3 {(I) 

21 Q— B sq. 
22QR— Q8q.(e) 
23BxP 

24 B— R sq. (a) 
25BxB 
26B— K3 
27QxKt 
28QxB 
29 K— B2 

B— K2 
0—0 
R— Ksq. 
B— KB sq. 
P— KR3' 
P— KKt4 
KtxKt 
B— Kt2 
B— B3 
Q-Q2 
R— K2 
QR— Ksq. 
Kt— Kt5 
Kt— K4 
P-Q4 
PxP(/) 
PxP 
Kt— Q6 (h) 
B— Q5ch. 
RxR 
RxB 
R— K8 ch. 
QxQch. 

F(>8ition after Black's 24tb move 

Kt— Q6 

Black-J. H. Blackburne. 

■-.HtBLD 

iK^Pli 

\^niite— A. Burn. 

30RxQ 
31R— KE4 
32 Ki-K4 

33KxP(./) 
34 Besigns. 

RxB(0 
E— QB8 
RxPch. 
P— B4 

where&s, when Black plays P — Q3 on the Bd move, he is not, in answer to 
4 P— Q4, obliged to capture the Pawn, but raay reply 4 . . . B— Q2, which keeps 
his own Pawns compact and the hostile KKt inactive. 

(6) Much stronger was P— B4, followed by B— B8, with a formidable centre that 
could not be broken up, and with the further prospect of forming an 
attack by the advance of the wing Pawns on the K side. 

(c) This and the previous move of White are useless. His QB evidently' stood 
much better at K3 than at home. 

(rf)A weak move, which loosens the K side and shuts out his KB from act- 
ivity. Either QR— Q sq. or P— KR3 were better. 

{€) Very feasible but for the deep and ingenious countermine which the opponent 
springs upon him. He had, however, also, a bad game after 22 P x P, 22 B x 
P; 23 KtxKt, 28 Qx Kt; 24 B— B8, 24 Kt— B8, etc. 

(/) Very fine play, and preparing a still more Iwautiful surprise. 

(g) Of course, he could not allow the Bishop to be taken by the Pawn, for Black's 
continuation with Kt — B6 ch. would be ruinous to him. And if 24 B — R3, 24 
P— B7 ch. ; 25 K X P, 25 Kt— Kt 5 ch. ; 26 B x Kt, 26 B— Q5 ch. ; 27 B— K3, 
27 R X B, threatening mate by R — K7 double ch., and wins. 

{h) A splendid master coup of the highest ingenuity. See diagram. 

( i) Black has come out of the struggle with a formidable Pawn ahead, which wins 
in a few moves. 

(J) A piece was lost anyhow. If 33 K— B sq., 33 B— Kt4 ch.; 34 K— K sq. (or 
34 K— Kt sq., 84 P— KB4; 35 Kt— B2 [if 35 Kt— B6 ch., 35 K— B2, and wins), 
35...R— B8 ch., and wins.) 84. . R— K7ch.; 85 K— Q sq., 35 RxKt; 86 RxR, 
36 P— B7, and wins. 

BLAOKBUBNES GAMES. 

181 

Game No. 189. 

Played in the first round, April 13th. 

GirOCO PIANO. 

White 

E. Delmar. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P— B3 
5P— Q3 
6P— QKt4 
7 P— QE4 (a) 
8P— Kt5 
9Q— K2 

lOP— E3 

UB— K3 

12 QK1H-Q2 

13 Kt— B sq. 

14 P— Kt4 

15 Kl^KtS 
16QxB 

Black 

J. H. Blackbume. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 

Ktr-B3 

P— Q3 
B— Kt3 
P— QR4 
Kt-QKt sq. (b) 
B— Kt5 (c) 
B— E4 
QKt— Q2 
Q-K2 
P— R3 
B— Kt3 
BxB 
Kt— Kt 3 

17 Kt— R4 (d) 

ISPxKt 

19 KKt— B5 (e) 

20KtxB 

21 B— Q sq. (/) 

22P— E4 

23 B— R3 (g) 

24 B^QR sq. 

25 Q— K2 

26 Kt— Kt 3 

27 P— B3 
28PxP 

29 P— Kt 5 (i) 
30E--KB2 
31Q— Kt4ch. 
32QB^R2 
33P— R6(/) 
34Q— Qsq 
36 Q— Q5 ch. 

t 

KtxB 

Kt-Q2 

BxKt 

Q-B3 

P— QKt3 

0—0—0 

Kt— B4 
I— K3 
'— Kt3 

P— E4 

PxP 

Q-K2 (k) 

QE— B sq. 

P— B3 

K— Kt2 

PxP 

R— B5 

PxP 

K— Kt sq. 

(a) The premature advance of the Pawns on the Q side only tends to weaken that 
wing. 

ib) Usually Kt— K2 is played here, but this retreat has very much in its favor, 
for, as will be seen, this Knight becomes much sooner available for the attack 
against the adverse Q side which furnishes already a good mark for an early 
campaign on that wing. 

ic) We prefer B— K3. The position in which this Bishop is subsequently placed 
at KKt 3 reduced Black's advantage which would have been otherwise more 
considerable. 

id) White, by good play on the K side, had recovered ground that gave promise 
of further improvement for his position but for the precipitated attack at this 
juncture, which allows the opponent to place the Pawns on the other wing 
in a bad state. 17 B— Kt3, and if 17...P— Q4; 18 Kt— Q2, 18 O— O— O; 
19 P — KB8 would have balanced affairs on the Q wing, with good prospects of 
attack on the K side on account of the blocked position of Black's Bishop. 

ie) The offer of the exchange of the Knight for the adverse almost useless Bishop 
is still more damaging to his game. Kt — Kt 2 instead would have prepared 
better ability for this Knight via K3 after removing the Queen. 

(/) Within a few moves he has to beat a retreat with this Rook. The best plan 
was now K — Q2, with view of a march up with his King as far as QR3, if 
necessary, in order to protect his QRP. 

{g) The post chosen for this Rook helps to break up his K side. 

{h) The last series of moves is a succession of masterly tactics on Black's part. 

(i) He would have been just as uncomfortable after 29 P— R5, 29 Q— Kt 4, etc. 

U) The Pawn was lost anyhow. If 33 P x P (or 38 Q x P, 33 Q x Q; 34 P x Q, 34 

182 

BLACEBUBNE 8 GAMES. 

36 QE— K2 

37 Kt— B6 
38QxQ 
39 Ki^K7 
40K— Q2 

P— B5 
Q— K3 
KtxQ 
KB— KB sq. 
B^B8 

41 Kt-B5 Kt— B4 

42KtxRP(Jfc) PxKt 
43RxP KKr-B7 
44 Beaigns. 

RxR; 85RxB, 
ning the KtP. 

35 R— B6, and ^ 

wins), 38... RxR; 34 RxR, 34 R -I 

(k) Which amounts t« resignation. 

Game No. 140. 

Played in the second round, May 14th. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

11 P— B3 Kt— B4 

12PxP QKtxP 

13 K1^B2 B— B4 

14P— KKt4 B— Kt3 

15P— Kt5 Kt— R4 

16BxKt KtxB(e) 

ITBxBch. PxB 

18Q— Kt4 Kt-B4 

19 Kt— Q3 K— B2 

20RxQch. BxR 

21 Ki^K5 ch. K— Kt sq. 

22 Q— K6 ch. Resigns. 

(a) The plan here initiated greatly helps the adverse development of minor pieces. 
(6) The precursor of disaster. Q — B4 was his only good move. 

(c) The depth and heaaty of this and the next move will show itself fully seven 
moves later from this point. 

(d) K — Q sq. or — KB2 might have prolonged the defence, but in each instance 
White could proceed with P— K4, followed by P— KB8, with a fine attack. 

(e) If 16 ... P X B; 17 QKt x P, 17 Kt x B; 18 Kt— Q6 ch. wins equally. 

White 

Black 

J. H. Blackbume. 

E. Delmar. 

1P-Q4 

P— KB4 

2P— KKt3 

KKtr-B3 

3B— Kt2 

P— B3 (o) 

4KKt-R3 

P-K4 

6PxP 

Q— Il4ch. 

6Kt— B3 

QxP 

7B— B4 

Q-K2 (b) 

80-0 

P-<J4 

9 R— K sq. (c) 

QK<^Q2 (d) 

10 P— K4 

BPxP 

BLACKBURNE 8 GAMES. 

183 

Game No. 141. 

Played in the first round, April 2d. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

White 
«. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 

2 QKt-B3 

3 P— B4 
4PxKP 
5 K1^B3 
6Q— K2 
7Q— Kt5(6) 
8P— Q4 
9Q— K2 

10 B— K3 

11 Q— B2 

12 B— Q sq. 
13PxP 
UB— Q3 
15RxB 
16PxB(e) 

17 0—0 

18 B— B sq. 
19P— Kt3 
20 Kt— R4 (g) 
21RxQ 
22BxBch. 
23 K— B sq. 

Black 
J. H. Blackbame. 

P— K4 
KK*^B3 
P— Q4 
KtxP 
QKt— B3 
B— KB4 (a) 

K<r-B4 

P— QR3 
K<^K3 (c) 
B— QKt5 
0—0 
P— B3 
QxP 
BxB(cO 
BxKtck 
Kt— R4 (/) 
Kfr-QB5 
QR— Ksq. 
P— B3 
QxQch. 
KtxP 
KxR 
K1^K3 

24 R-B3 ch. 
25K1H-B5 
26B— B4 
27K— Kt2 

28 B— B sq. 

29 R— B sq. 
30P— KR4 
31B— B4 
32 Kt— Q6 
33BxKt 
34R^B2 
35B— Kt4 

36 B— Q6 

37 K— B sq. 
38R^K2 
39 KxR 
40K— Q3 
41B— B7 
42 P— B3 
43B— K5 
44B— B4 

45 B— B7 

46 K— Q2 
47PxP 
48K— B3 
49P— R3 

K— Kt sq. 
Kt— B4 
Kt-K5 
P— KKt4 
Ki^K4 
P— KR4 
P— Kt5 
Kt— B6 
KtxKt 
R^K7 ch. 
R— K6 
P— Kt3 
RxP 
R^K6 
RxR 
Kt— Q6 ch. 
Kfr-B4 
P— Kt4 
K— B2 
K— K3 
P— B4 
P— B5 ch. 
P— Q5 
K-Q4 
KtxQP 
Kt— B3 

(a) New, and it strikes as as a very good idea. 

(6) Tliis is certainly not an advantageous answer, for, as will be seen, the Queen 
is driven hacif., with considefable gain of position for the opponent. But even 
after 7 P— Q3, 7 Kt x Kt; 8 P x Kt, 8 P— <J5 Black's game seems t» be a little 
preferable. 

(e) Kt — K5 instead would have strongly fixed a piece in the centre, which Black 
could not afford to exchange for a long time, and which made it difficult for 
the adverse Queen to remove from her present post without obstructien to one 
of her oMm pieces. 

(d) If 14 B X Kt ch.,; 13 P x B, 15 B x B; 16 P x B, with a good game. 

(e) White has made an excellent fight of the opening, considering the pressure of 
a skilfully-conducted counter-attack to which his game was early submitted in 
a new variation, and he could have now equalized the game fully by K x B. 
The move adopted subjects him to great disadvantage on the Q side. 

(/) Black is not slow to occupy the vantage ground. 

ig) Dropping into a shrewdly-laid trap which costs a Pawn. The ending that 

follows is played by Mr. Blackbume with scientific accuracy and is worthy of 

.study, but the actual play illustrates its chief points. 

184 

BLACKBUBNE 8 OAHE8. 

50B— B4 
51B— B7 
52PxP 
63 K— Q2 
54B— Q6 

P— R4 
P— Kt 5 ch. 
PxPch. 
K— K5 
P— B6 ch. 

65 K— B sq. 

56 B— B4 

57 K— Kt sq. 
58B— Kt5 
59 Resigns. 

P— Kte 

K— Q6 
Kt— Q5 
Kt^KT 

Game No. 142. 

•Played in the second round, April 27th. 

QUEENS GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 

Blark 

J. H. Blackbume. G. H. D. (iossip. 

1P-Q4 
2P— QB4 

3 QKt— B3 

4 Kt— B3 

6 Kt-K5 (6) 

6P— K3 

7PxBP 

8PxP 

9Kt— Q3 
lOB— (^ 
UKt— Kt6 
12B— K2 
13K1H-R3 

14 0—0 

15 B— KB8 

16 P— KKt3 
17B— Kt2 
18 B— B sq. 

P-Q4 
P— K3 
KKlr-B3 
B— Kt5(a) 
0—0 
P— B4 
BxP 
PxP 
B— Q3 
Kt-B3 
B— Kt sq. 
P— QR3 
R— Ksq. 
Kt— K5 
Q— R5 
Q— B3 
P— KR4 
P— 115 

19 B— QB3 

20 Kt-KB4 
21RPxP 
22BxKt(f/) 
23KtxB 
24K— Kt2 
25 R— KB sq. 
26E^R5 

27 Q-R sq. (/) 
28BxKt 

29 R— QB8 ch. 

30 R^B5 ch. 
31Q— R3 
32Rr— Kt5disch. 
33Q— Kt4 
34R— Kt6 
35RxP 
36KxR 

37 K— Kt sq. 

38 R— Q7 ch. 

Q-Kt4(c) 
PxP 
B— K3 
PxB 
RxKt 

Rr-Kt3 

Ki^K4 
Q— K2 (e) 
P— B3 
PxB 
K— B2 
K— K3 
R^B3 
K-Q4 
R^B2 
R— B3 
RxPch. 
Q— B3 ch. 
Q— B6 
Resigns, (r/) 

(a) The disadvantage of this pinning ought soon to become manifest, for. if Black 

exchan^ the Knight he obviously strengthens the adverse centre, while 

otherwise he must lose time with that Bishop. 
(6) White retards his development with useless manoeuvres of this Knight that 

would have been better left where it was, and, in con.sequence. Black gains 

time for a counter-attack. 

(«) Up to this Black's play, after the first few opening moves, is quite praise- 
worthy, and he has formed a K side attack that would have promised well had 
he now moved 19. . .Q— Kt8, and if 20 Kt— B4, 20 BxKt; 21 KPxB, 21 P— 
R6, with a strong attack. 

(d) We do not think that the exchanges that follow ought to have turned in 

White's favor, and we would have preferred B — K nq. 
{f) This is a fatal error. Black's game would have been still preferable after 

26. . .Q— B3. The reply 27 Q — R sq. was then harmless, on account of 27. . . 

BLACKBUBNE 8 GAJfES. 

185 

Q— B6 ch. ; 28 K— B »q. (best if 28 K— Kt sq., 28 R x P ch. ; 29 P x R, 29 (J x 
KPeh.; 30 K— K2, 80Q— K7ch., and wins; for if 81 K— Ktsq., 81 Kt— Btt 
cli. forces the gain of the Queen, and, of course, after 81 K — R8, 81 Q x R eh., 
Bhick wins e<iually), 28. . .Q x Q ch. ; 29 K x Q, 29 Kt— Q6. 

(/■) White now forces the game with his usual skill. 

(//) White mates in two more moves, commencing with Q — Kt8 cli. 

Game No. 143. 

Played in the first round, March 25th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

fF/,ife 

Black- 

.). H. Blackbunie. J. M. Hanhani. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4Kt— B3 
5 B— B4 (a) 
6P— Q3 
7Q— K2 
8B— Kt3 
9P— QR4 

10 Kt— Q sq. 

llPxP 

12 B— Kt 5 

13 Kt— K3 
14QxB 
15KtH-Q2 
16Q— Kt3 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-rQ3 
KKt— B3 
P— B3 (fr) 
Q— K2 (c) 
P— QKt4 
P— OR4 
P— kt5 
B— R3 
PxP 
QKt-Q2 
BxKt(rf) 
Kt-B4 (e) 
Q-R2 (/) 
KKt— Q2 

17B— K3(9) P— Kt3 

% 

Position after Whites 28d move 
QxPch. 
Black — J. M. Hanham. 

White— J. H. Blackburne. 

(a) We believe that 5 P x P, 5 P x P; 6 Kt x P, 6 Q— Q5; 7 Ktr-QS may l)e played 
safely. 

(6) A line of defence introduced by' Anderssen in the Baden Tournament of 1870, 
but it has justly fallen into desuetude. 

(c) Not a good move, for the Queen is wanted on the other side and should be 
reserved for being played to Q — Kt 3 after advancing P — QKt 4. Besides, the 
KP was now indirectly protected already, as White could not capture twice on 
account of Ihe ultimate Q— Q5. 

(r/)The bad place chosen for his Queen on the 6th move makes this disad- 
vantageous exchange an unpleasant necessity; for if 13...P — Kt3; 14 Kt — 
Kt4, 14B— Q3; 15 KR— B sq., with a fine attack. 

(e) P— KR8, with the view of forcing an exchange or driving the adverse Bishop 
further off bj^ P — KKt 4, was undoubtedly better. 

(/) Even now he ought to have attacked the Bishop with the same object. The 
move in the text allows the opponent to institute a powerful attack. 

ig) Excellent play which compels the opponent to weaken his K side. 

186 

BLACEBUBNES QAMES. 

18 0—0 

19 Q— B2 (t) 

20 Q— R4 (k) 

21 Q— R6 ch. 

0—0 (A) 
K-Kt2 0-) 
P— B3 
K— R sq. 

22 R— B3 (I) QR— K sq. 

23QxPcli., and mates in three 
moves, (m) 

(fi) This is fatal, but his game could not hold out for -long anj'how, for if 18. . . P — 
B3, White could either proceed with Bx P at once, followed by Q x KP, win- 
ning two Pawns for the exchange with a powerful attack, or he might preface 
that uiauGBurre by B — B8 and doubling Rooks. 

(i) Threatening Bx P ch. and Kt— QKt3. 

ij) It is difficult to sugge.st anything better. In fact, the opponent's attack is 
already irresistible. 

(A) Playing for higher game than the gain of a Pawn, as will be seen very soon. 

(I) White prepares a most beautiful termination. 

(m) A charming finish. See diagram. After 23. . .K x Q the mate is effected bv 
34 R— R3 ch., 24 K— Kt2; 25 B— B6 ch., 35 K moves; 26 H x R mate. 

Game No. 144. 

Played in the second round, April 18th. 

GIU(KX) PIANO. 

White 
J. M. Hanham. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3B— B4 

4P— B3 

5P— Q3 

6B— K3 

7Q— K2 

8 QKt— Q2 

9QxB 
lOB— Kt3 
UQ— Kt5 
12 B— B2 
13Q— R4 
14 P— KR3 (b) 
15QxQ 

16 P— Q4 

17 P— KKt 3(c) 
18PxKP 
19PxP 
20BxB 

21 K— K2 

22 B^R2 (d) 

Black 
J. H. Blackburne. 

P— K4 

QK1^B3 

B— B4 

Kt— B3 

P-Q3 

Q-K2 

0—0 

BxB 

P— QR3 (a) 

K— R sq. 

B— K3 

P— R3 

QR^Q sq. 

Kt— KR2 

KtxQ 

Kt— Kt3 

P— KB4 

QPxP 

BxP 

RxB 

Kt-B3 

P— B4 

23 Kt— K sq. 

24 Kt— B2 

25 Kt— K3 

26 Rr— Q sq. 

27 KR^R sq. 

28 Kt (Q2)— B4 

29 R^Q6 (e) 
SOKtxR 

31 B^Q sq. (/} 
32R^Q2 

33 P— B3 {(f) 

34 PxP 

35 Kt (Q6)— B5 
36KtxRP 

37 K— Q sq. 

38 R— R2 

39 K— K2 

40 Kt (R6)— Kt 4 

41 K— Q2 

42 K— B2 

43 R— K2 
44R— B2 

45 K— Q sq. 

46 R— Q2 

47 P-R4 U) 

P— K5 

K1H-K4 

Kt^B6 

Rr-K4 

R— KB sq, 
R— K3 
RxR 
Kt-K4 
Kt— Q6 
P— QKt 4 
P— B5 
Kt— R4 
P— Kt3 
KtxPch. 

I-B7 
K— Kt2 
KtxRP 
Kt— Kt4 
Kt— B6 
Kt— B5 
Kt— K8 ch. 
Kt (K8)— Q6 
P— R4 (0 
R— KR sq. 

KtxKP(//) 
Kt (K5)-B7 ch. 

blackburne's games. 187 

48Kt— R2 R— Ksq. 61 P— E6 K— Kt3 

49 Kt (E2)— Kt 4 P— Kt 5 62 P— E7 K— B4 

50PxP PxP 63Kt— E6cli. K— K3 

51 Kt X P E— K8 ch. 64 K— Kt 7 E— Kt 7 ch. 

52K— B2 B^BSch. 66 K— B7 E— B7 ch. 

53K— Kt3 Kt— K3 66K— Kt7 K— Q2 

54 E X Kt (k) Kt— B4 ch. 67 P queens E— Kt 7 ch. 

55KxP KtxEch. 68K— E7 E— E7 ch. 

56 K— Kt 5 Kt X P 69 K— Kt 8 E— Kt 7 ch. 

67 Kt X Kt E— QKt 8 70 Q— Kt 7 ch. E x Q ch. 

68P— E5 ExKtch. 71KxE 

59 K— B6 E— QE7 Drawn. 

60K— Kt6 P— Kt4 

(a) With the object of playing QKt — R4, but of no use against White's answer. 
6) Threatening to advance P — KKt 4, which attack Black evades by offering to 

exchange Queens. 
(r) Castling was preferable, and the entrance of Black^s Knight at KB5, which is 

prevented by the move in the text, would cause him less trouble than the hole 

which is formed at KB8 in consequence of this advance, 
(rf) Weak and unintelligible. There was no reason against placing this Rook on 

its natural post at Q sq. 
e) We would have preferred Kt — Q6, followed by the other Kt — KB5. 
(/) If Kt X P, Black would reply forcibly R— QKt sq. 
<^) Premature and the cause of great difficulties. 83 Kt (K3) — B5 was a good 

preparation for this move, and it also threatened to bring the King into play 

via K3, attacking the isolated KP once more. 
(A) Much stronger was 87. . .Rr— B6; 88 Kt(R6)— Kt4, 88 KtxKP; 39 R— R2, 89 

R — Kt 6, with a fine attack, 
(t) With this ill-considered move Black gives the victory out of hand. After 

46...R— KRsq.; 47 Kt— R2, 47 R— R6; 48 Kt(K8)— Bsq., White's pieces 

would have been all blocked and Black gained time to advance the KKtP, 

supported by the King. 
(J) A very clever answer that breaks the adverse Pawns on the Q wing. 
(k) At the temporary cost of the exchange. White effects a draw now by a far- 
sighted and cleverly-initiated combination. 

Game No. 145. 

Played in the second round, April 25tli. 
PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

3 B— B4 (a) B— K2 

4 Kir-Bd P— QB3 

5 P— Q4 Kt-Q2 

6 0—0 KKt— B3 

(a) We consider this stronger than the time-honored 3 P — Q4, 8PxP; 4QxP. 

fVkite 

Black 

J. H. Blackburne. 

J. M. Hanham. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKlr-B3 

P— Q3 

188 

BLACKBURNE R GAMES. 

7Q— K2 

8B— K3 

9 B— Kt 3 
10 Kt— KE4 (c) 
llKt— Kt6 
12PxP(c) 

13 P— KR3 (/) 

14 QR— Q sq. 
15BxB 
16Kt— R4 
17 Kt— B5 
18P— KKt4(o) 

19 P— KE4 

20 K— R sq. 

21 E^KKt sq. 
22R— Kt3 

23 QB^KKt sq. 

24 Q— B sq. (i) 

25 B— B sq. 
26P— R5(/) 
27 P-B4 "^ 

0-0 
Q-B2 
P— KR3 (b) 
Kt— Kt 3 {(I) 
R— Ksq. 
PxP 
B-Q3 
B— K3 
RxB 
QKt-Q2 
B— B sq. 
Kt— R2 
R— Kt3 
Kt— B4 

Ktr-K3 

R-Qsq. 
Ki^Q5 (h) 
KtxP 
Kt— Q5 
B^B3 
PxP 

28BxP 

29 Q— QB sq. 

30 B— Q2 

31 B— B4 

32 B— K3 (k) 

33 B— Q2 
34BxKt 
35 R— K sq. 
36P— Kt3 
37QxR 
38P— Kt5 

39 P— R6 (n) 

40 Kt— Q4 

41 Q— K6 
42K— Kt2 

43 Q— K2 

44 K— R3 («) 
45K— Kt4 
46KxP 

47 K— B4 

48 Resigns. 

Q-R4 
R— K3 
Q-K4 
Q— R4 

Kt— QKt 4 (0 
KtxKt 
Q-R5 (»») 
RxP 
RxRch. 
QxRP 
PxP 
Q— QB7 
Q— Kt 3 
QxPch. 
Q-Q3 
Q— Q4 cli. 
Q— R8 ch. 
Kir-BS ch. 
R^Q4 ch. 
B— Q3 ch. 

(6) As often this is compromising. 

(c White has so far pursued the plan of development of pieces, i-elying on obtain- 
ing the advantage in consequence of the confined position of Black's KB, and 
this was the correct course. But he now carelessly gives the opponent an 
opportunity of relieving himself. 

f/)10...KtxP; 11 Kt— Kt6, 11 R— Ksq.; 12 KtxKt, 12 P— Q4v ISKtxBch., 
13RxKt; 14 QBxRP (best, for if White remove the Knight, then PxP 
follows), 14...PxB; 15Kt— Kt3, 1.5 Kt— B sq. was much better. 

(e) A useless exchange, more especially as White had a much stronger way of 
pursuing the attack by P— KB4. 

(/) We believe that Kt x B ch., followed by P — KB3, was preferable anyhow. an<l. 

of course, we do not approve of this advance in general. 
((/) The attack instituted by this and the next move was not likely to succeed, 

considering the great defensive power at Black's disposal on the K side. 
(A) Black's nianceuvre's with the Knight fi-om the 20th move were remarkably well 

conceived, and he now either wins a Pawn or gets rid of one of the opponent's 

attacking pieces. 
[i) Mr. Blackbume must have either overrated his attack or underrated his 

opponent in thus giving up a valuable Pawn. B x Kt, followed by Kt — Kt sq., 

in reply to P x Kt, was the only right play. 
(y)Thisisnot good. Probably P — B4 at once would have given him a better 

chance, as it left him the option of advancing P — Kt 5 eventually. 
(A) As Mr. Blackbume had previously drawn a game against the same opponent 

in the same round, he seems to have been reluctant to fight for a draw which, 

according to the rules, would have .scored half. Events did not justify his 

hazarding to win. 
(/) An excellent rejoinder which practically forces the game. 
( in) Remarkably well played. 
(11) White makes a stubborn fight in the hope of catching the opponent at some 

mistake. 

blacebubne's gaues. 

189 

(€/) Hopeless, but there was no chance. If K— R3, Black wins the exchange bj 
B— QS, and if 44 K— Kt sq., 44 B— B4; 45 R— Q8, 45 Kt— Bsq., foUpwed by 
Kt— K», and wins. 

Game No. 146. 

Played in the first round, March 28th. 

PETROFFS DEFENCE. 

WhUe 

M. Jiidd. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3Kt— B3 
4P— Q4 
oKtxP 
6B— Q3 
TKtxKt 
8 0—0 
9P— B4 

10 P— K5 

11 K— R sq. 

12 Q— K sq. 

13 Kt— Q sq. 

14 K^-K3 

15 Er-B3 {b) 

(a) 

Black 
J. H. Blackburne. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
P— Q3 
PxP 
B— K2 
Ki^B3 
PxKt 
0-0 
P-Q4 
B— B4 ch. 

Ktr-Kt5 

P— B4 
B— K3 
Kt— R3 
K— R sq. 

16R— R3 
17 Q— K2 
18B— Q2 
19 Kt^B sq. 
20P— QKtS 
21 Kt— Kt 3 
22Q— R5 
23RxQ 
24RxBP 

25 K— Kt sq. 

26 Er-Kt 5 

27 Kt-K2 

28 Er-Kt 4 
29R^R4 
30ExKt(/) 
SlRxRPch. 
32BxB 
33B— QB5 

(?) 

Q— Ksq. 
Q-B2 
P-Q5 
QR— Ksq. 
B-Q4 
R— K3 
QxQ(c) 
Kl^Kt 5 (d) 
KR— K sq. 
P— Kt3 
Kt— R3 
K1^B2 
Kt— R3 
K— Kt2(e) 
B— QKt5 
KxR 

R— QKt sq. 
Resigns. 

(a) White has conducted the attack with remarkable ability, but now we would 
have preferred the following line of play : 13 Kt— R4, 13 B— Kt 8; 14 P— KR3, 
14 Kt— R8; 15 P— QB4, 15 PxP; 16 Bx P ch., 16 K— R sq.; 17 B— K3, with 
a fine attack. 

(6) Like most K side attacks, the one here started ought to have been well 
defensible. We would have preferred B — Q3, followed by R — Q sq. , after 
which operatioas with the Pawns on the Q side promised much better than the 
move in the text, for White had already formed a strong passed Pawn in the 
centre that enabled him to press for an ending with great advantage. 

(c) A very strange failure of perception, especially for a master like Mr. Black- 
burne, and, moreover, as 22... R — Kt3 covered one of those brilliant ideas 
that would have so well suited Black's usual style. For if then 38 B x P, 33 
QxB; 34 KtxQ, 24 BxPch.; 25 K— Ktsq.. 35 BxRdisch. (better than 
25...B— B6 disch.; 26 QxR, etc.); 26 K— B3 ! (if 26 Kt— Kt3, 36 P— Q6 
disch.; 37K— Rsq., 37B— KKt5, and wins), 36...BxKt, with three pieces 
for the Queen and a fine attack. 

(d) Black has no means of saving the Pawn which forms the key to his position. 
(6) There was little to be done in order to spin out the fight for very long, but 

anyhow he deprives himself of all such hope by this move. 
(/) White gets hold of the decisive advantage with promptitude, 
(y) The shortest and best way in order to dispose of further trouble. With two 

pieces against the Rook and two Pawns, besides that a third Pawn is sure to 

fall soon. White has an easy task. 

190 

BLACKBUBNE B GAMES. 

Game No. 147. 

Played in the second round, April 22d. 

VIENNA OPENIN(J. 

White 

J. H. Blackburne. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt^B3 
3P— B4 
4BPxP(a) 
5K1^B3 
6 Q— K2 (6) 
TKtPxKt 
8P— Kt3(c) 
9P— Q3 

lOB— KKt2 

110—0 

12 E— Kt sq. 

Black 

M. Judd. 

P— K4 
KK^^B3 
P-Q4 
KtxP 
B— K2 
KtxKt 
0—0 
B— KB4 
P— B4 
K1^B3 
Er-Bsq. 
P— QKt3 

13K<^E4 
14 K^-B5 
15P— Kt4 
16B— B4 
17PxB 
ISBxKt 

19 P— Q4 

20 R— B3 (e) 
21PxP 

22 R— KR3 

23 Q— Q2 
24ExPcL. 
25BxPch. 

26 P— B6 (0 

27 Br-E8 ch. 

(A) 

B— K3 
E^Ksq. 
B— Esq. 
BxKt(cO 
KtxP 
P— B3 
K— R sq. 
PxP 
B— Q3 
P— KR3 (/) 
PxB(«;) 
K— Kt sq. 
K— B sq. 
PxP 
Eesigns. (j ) 

(o)We prefer 4 KPxQP, when the game might proceed : 4. . .P — K5; 5 P — Q3. 

5 KB— QKt 5 ; « P X P, 6 Kt X KP ; 7 Q— Q4, and should Black venture on 7 . . . 

Q— R5 ch.; 8 P— Kt8, 8 Ktx P, he would lose by 9 Q— K3 ch. 
(6) If 4 P— Q3, 4 Kt X Kt; 5 P X Kt, 5 P— QB4, with the better game, 
(c) We do not approve of this and would prefer Q — B2, followed by B— K2. 
((f) Black has plaved remarkably well up to this, but by the present premature 

exchange, with the view of the sacrifice that follows, he compromises his 

game at the point when he could have much improved his position by 16. . . 

P — B8, to which we hardly see any satisfactory answer; for if 17 P — (^4, 17 

B X Kt, foUowed by P x QP, or if 17 Kt— Q6, 17 B x Kt; 18 P x B, 18 B— B3, 

followed by Kt— K4. 
(e) An excellent move which initiates a beautifully-conceived attack. 
(/) Necessary; for if 22... PxB; 28BxPch., 28KxR; 24 Q— R.'i ch., 24 K— 

Kt sq. ; 25 B x P ch., and mates in two moves, 
(gr) Useless, of course. But Black could only escape immediate disaster at the 

cost of a ^ieoe, namely, by B^B sq., whereupon White would have withdmwn 

B — B4, winning also without much difficulty. 
(A) Mr. Blackburne now finishes off with his usual brilliancy and precision, 
(i) A beautiful stroke, 
(i) For mate follows after 27. . .K— K2; 28 R— R7 ch. and Q— B6 mate. 

BLA.CKBUBNEB GAMES. 

191 

Game Xo. 148. 

Played in the first round, April 5tli. 

QUEENS GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 
J. H. Blackburne. 

IP— Q4 

2 P— QB4 

3 QKt-B3 
4Kth-B3 

5 B— Kt 5 (a) 

6P— K3 

7 R— B sq. 

8PxP(ft) 

9B— Q3 
10 0—0 
IIB— KB4 
12Q— K2 
13 KR— Q sq. (c) 
14BxKt 

15 Kt-K5 

16 P— KKt4 {e) 

17 Q— B sq. 

18 P— KR3 
19Q— Kt2 
20Kt-K2 
21Kt— Kt3 

Black 
S. LipHchUtz. 

P-Q4 
P— K3 
KKt— B3 
P— QKt3 
B— K2 
B— Kt2 
QKt— Q2 
PxP 
O— O 
Kt— K5 
P-QB4 • 
P— B4 
P— B5 
BPxB 
Kth-B3 (d) 
Q— K sq. 
B-Q3(/) 
lU-Qsq. 
P— QKt4 
P— Kt5 
Kt— Q2 

22KtxKt 
23 Kt-K2 
24KtxB 

25 P— Kt 5 

26 K— R sq. 

27 Kr-KKt sq. 

28 Q— Kt 3 

RxKt 

BxB 

QR— KB2 

R^B4 

P-QR4 

B-B sq. {g) 

Q-R5 

Position after Wliite's 33d move 

RxPch. 

Blacic — S. Lipschiitz. 

Wliite— J. H. Blackburne. 

(«) Either B — B4 or P — K3 are generally preferred in this form of opening. As 

will be .<ieen, White lia.s to lose a move with this Bishop later on. 
(6) It is not advisable to exchange this Pawn early. The right time for it is when 

the adverse QBP is played to QB4, and then both Pawns should be exchanged, 
(c) As usual, Mr. Blackburne neglects the safety of his Q side in order to speculate 

on a K side attack, but even for the latter purpose K — Kt sq. would have been 

better. The con-ect play, however, was PxP, followed by KR — Q sq. 
{d) Much stronger was 15. . .Q— K sq., whereupon, if 16 P — QKt 3, which agaiu.st 

the move in the text might have given White the advantage, the following 

continuation might have occurred : 16. . .P — QKt4; 17 QKtx KtP, 17 Ktx Kt; 

18Kt— B7, 18Q— Q3; 19BxKt (or 19 KtxH, 19 Kt— Q6; 20 Kt— B7. 2() 

Ktx B, and wins), 19. . .QR— B sfj., and should win. 
(e) While now White undoubtedly would have obtained the sujHfriority by the 

move above indicated, 16 P — QKt 3. The move in the text also weakens his 

K .side. 
(/) Black loses time. There was no real danger against his K side, and he could 

have proceeded with his attack on the other wing at <mce by P— QKt4 with 

more sure effect. 
is/) Necessary ; for he could not at once attivck by Q— R") on account of Kt— KS, 

followed by Kt— QB5. 

192 

BLACKBTTBNE 8 0AKE8. 

29 P— Kt 3 (//) 

30PxP 
31B— B7 
32P— Kt6 

PxP(0 
QxP 

p-R5(y) 

P— R3 

33RxPch. (it) 

34 Kir-m ch. 

35 Q— B7 ch. 

36 Q— Q6 ch. 

KxR(0- 
RxKt 
K— B3 
Besigns. (m) 

(A) The iutroduction to a mating scheme which, though avoidable, is of the highest 

merit for ingenuity and beauty of conception. 
(t) By this move Black forfeits all winning prospects which he could still hold bv 

29...Q— Kt4. 
ij) Black seems oblivious to the coming disaster, but even if he had foreseen the 

opponent's beautiful combination, he could no more avoid defeat. If 91. . . 

Q— R5; 82 P— Kt6, 33 P— R8; 88 Q~R4, followed by Kt— Ro or Q— K7 

accordingly, and wins. Or if 31 . . .QR— B2; 82 R x R, 32 R x R; 83 P— Kt 6. 

33 P X P; 34 Kt x P, 84 B— B4 (otherwi.se White wins bv Q— R4); 35 Kt— K.'). 

85 R— Kt 2; 36 Q— Kt 5, with a winning attack. 
(k) A magnificent surprise. See diagram. 
(t) No help for it. If .33 . . . K— R .sci. ; 34 I^-R7 ch.. 34 K— Kt .sq. ; 35 P— Kt T. 

and wins. 
(m)For after 86. . .K— Kt3, obviously the only move tu delay mate, Q — K7 ch. 

and mate in two more moves foDow.s. 

Game Xo. 14». 

Played in the second round, May 4th. 

White 

FRENCH DEFENCK. 

Blade 

8. Liipschtttz. J. H. Blackbnme. 

IP— K4 
2P— Q4 
2 QKt— B3 
4P— K5 
5P— B4 
6PxP 

7 P— QR3 (b) 

8 P— QKt 4 

9 QKt— K2 

10 Kt— Kt 3 

11 P— B3 
12B— Q2 
13PxKt 
14 Rr— B sq. 
15BxP 
16QxQ 

17 R— B3 

18 Kt— K4 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
KKt— B3 
KKt— Q2 
P--<JB4 
Kt— QB3 (a) 
KtxBP<c) 
P— Q5 (d) 
P-Q6 
Q-<J5{e) 
QxBPch. 
Q-B5 
Kt— Q5 

Q-Q4(/) 

Q— Kt6 
KtxQ 
KtxP 
P— QKt3 

19B— Kt5ch. 

K-Q sq. 

20 B B6 

R— QKt sq. 

21 Kt— Kt 5 

K-K2 

22 Kt^K2 

B R3 

23K1^-Q4 

P— B3 

24PxPch. 

PxP 

25Kt{Kt5)xKP 

KtxKt 

26R— K3 

K— Q3 

27RxKtch. 

K— B4 

28 B K3 

K— B5 

29 K— B2 

BxP(f/) 

30 R— R sq. 

B— QB sq. 

31RxB 

BxR 

32KtxB 

P— Kt4 

33RxP 

P— Kt5 

34B K4 

KR— QB sq. 

35RxP 

P— Kt6 

36R— Q7 

P— Kt7 

37 R— Q4 ch. 

K— Kt6 

38 R— Q sq. 

R— B7 ch. 

39BxRch. 

KxB 

( 

blackburne's games. 193 

40R— Q2ch. 

K— B6 

SOP— R6 

R— KR8 

41RxP 

ExRch. 

51K— Kt6 

K— K5 

42 K— B3 

K— B5 

52 P— B5 

K— B5 

43 B— 04 

E— Kt 6 cL 

53P— Kt5 

K— Kt5 

44K— K4 

K— Kt8 

MP— R7 

RxP 

45BxP 

R— KSch. 

56KxR 

KxP 

46K— B5 

R— K7 

56P— Kt6 

K— Kt6 

47 P— Kt 4 

K— Q4 

57P— Kt7 

K— R4 

48P— E4 

RxKt 

68B— Kt2(A) 

Res^s. 

49 P— E5 

R— K8 

(a) If B X P at once, White would answer Q — Kt 4, with a strong attack. The 
preparation in the text is more difficult to answer, but yet we tlunk that White 
ought to retain, at least slightly, the better game by best play. 

(6)7R-K8, 7BxP(or7...KKtxBP; 8 Kt— B8, etc.); 8BxB, 8KtxB; 9 Kt 
— B3, and if 9. . .0—0; 10 QKt-Kt5, 10 Kt— K5; 11 B— Q3, leads, we believe, 
to a position more in White's favor than could be obtained by the play in the 
text. 

(c) 7 . . . Bx P was superior. 

{d) Black much overshot the mark with his counter-attack, whereas, after 8. . .Kt 
— Q2, he could either enter with his Kt at QKt 3 effectively or else at KB sq. 
after playing B^K2. No doubt, his development would have required care 
and patience, but we think he had a little the better game on account of the 
hole at White's QB4. 

(6) As will be seen from White's answer, this is a mistake that costs a piece. 

(/) Black probably overlooked that after White's answer he could not capture the 
KtP on account of the winning rejoinder B^K4. 14 . . . Kt— B7 ch. ; 15 Q x Kt, 
15 Q X Q; 16 R X Q, 16 P x R; 17 B— Q3, 17 B x P, gave Black more chance of 
making a fight. 

(ff) The object of Black in fighting on a game that was practically lost for some 
time becomes declared now. He evidently only plays in the hope that the 
adversary will commit some very serious error, and, as will be seen, he does 
not abandon that vain hope as long as he has a piece left on the board. 

(h) Black's faint speculation on a stalemate is disappointed. 

Game No. 150. 

Played in the first round, April 11th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White Black 3 KKt— B3 (6) B— KKt5 

J. H. Blackbume. N. MacLeod. * p^p^ O xP^ 

IP— K4 E— K4 6P— Q4 Kt-QB3 

2P— KB4 P— Q4(a) 7 Kt-B3 B— Kt5 

(a) A favorite defence of the late Herr Falkbeer. 

(6) The usual continuation is 3 PxQP, 8 P— K5; 4 QKt— B3, 4 KKt— B3, and 

194 

BLACKBUBNE 8 GAMKS. 

8 0— O 

9PxB 
lOKtxP 
llBxB 
12 B— R6 ch. 
13BxF 
14B— K5 
16BxR 

16 B— K5 

17 B— B3 

18 B^K sq. 

19 R— Kt sq. 

BxQKt 
P— KKt4(c) 
QxKt(d) 
P— B4 
K— Q2 
Q— B3(e) 
Q— K3 
KKt-K2 
R— KKt sq. 
Kt— Qsq. 
Q-B2 
Kt— Q4 

20Q— Q3 

21 P— B4 

22 P— Q5 

23 P— B5 
24B— Q4 
25 P— B6 
26Q— R3 
27R-K7 

28 B— K5 (/) 
29Q-Q3 
30RxPch. 
31RxPch. 

K— B sq. 
Ki^Kt3 
P— KR4 

Klr-Q2 

Kt— Kt sq. 
P— Kt3 
P— R4 
Q— Kt3 
K1^R3 
K<^B4 
K— Kt sq. 
Resigns. 

then if the attack proceed with 6 Q — KS, a move introduced by the editor in 
the Paris Tournament of 1867, we believe that White will retain his Pawn, 
with a good game. 

(c) Of course, an error that makes his already inferior position still worse. 

(d) If 10. . . B X B; 11 Q X B ch., etc. 

(e) After this blunder, which costs a Book, his game becomes hopeless. 

(/) White could also finish ofiE by 28 B x P ch., 28 K x R; 29 B x P ch., 29 K— B 
sq. ; 80 P — B7, and wins easily. 

Game Ko. Iffl. 

Played in the second round, May 11th. 

QUEEN BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

White 

IP— K4 

2 P— QB3 

3 P— Q4 > 

4 P— B4 {n) 

5 Q— B3 
6BPxP 
7B— Q3 
BBxKt 
9Kt— K2 

10 Kt— Q2 
llKt-QKt3 
12 P— KR4 (c) 
13P— Kt4 
14Q— Kt3 
16P— Kt5(rf) 
16PxB 

Black 

N. MacLeod J. H. Blackburne. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
Kt-B3 
KtxKP(6) 
P-Q4 
B— K2 
Kt— Kt4 
BxB 
B— K3 
Kt— K2 
0-0 
B— R3 
P— KB3 
PxP 
P— K5 
Kt— B4 

17 Q— K5 
18B— B2 

19 Kt— KB4 

20 R— KKt sq. 

21 Ki-B5 (g) 

22 QKt^K6 
23KtxR 

24 K— Qsq. 

25 K— B sq. 

26 K<^B4 (t) 
27Q— Kt5 
28RxQ 
29Br-Kt2(}*) 
30PxP 
31P— Kt3 

32 K— Kt 2 

33 K1^R3 
34Ki-B2 

R— B3 (e) 
KtxP(R3) 
B— B2 

(/) 

Kt— B4 
P— QKt3 (h) 
RxKt 
QxPch. 
Q— R4 ch. 
Q— R3 ch. 
Kt— R6 
Qxd 
Kt— B6 
P— B4 
PxP 
K— B sq. 
P— Kt4 
P— KR3 
B— Kt sq. 

BLACEBUBNE 8 OAKBS. 

195 

35 Kir-Kt4 

36 Kir-KS 

37 R-K sq. 

38 I^-Q sq. 

39 Kt— B5 ch. 

40 Kt-R6 

41 KtxPch. <k) 
42RxKtP 
43IU-B4ch. 
44P— B4 
45PxP 

P— KR4 
P— Kt5 
K— K2 
R— Qsq. 
K— B3 
B— Kt3 
PxKt 
K1^K4 
K— K2 
P— K6 (0 
P— K7 

46 Br-K sq. 
47BxKt 
48K— B3 
49RxPch. 
50 R-K4 ch. 
51RxB 
52R— KKt9 
53R— Kt7 
64R^QR7 
55K— Kt2 

Drawn. 

Kt— Q6 ch. 
BxB 
RxP 
BxR 
K— Q8 
R— R4 
R— R3 
P— R3 
K— Q4 
R^-QKt3 

(a) Bold and not to be reoomniended. EEt — B8 is better. 

C6) 4. . .Px P. and if 5 P— K5, 5 K^-Q4; « Kt— B8, 6 P— Q3; 7 P— QB4, 7 Kt— 
K6 would have given Black the superior game. 

(e) Black has allowed himself to be caught in an ugly position, and White 
promptly seizes the attack. 

(d) White imiwtiently makes too great demands on his ^me. 15 P x P would 
have left his attack strong enough, without danger to his game. 

(e) We see no need for this sacrifice. 17 . . . P x B; 18 Q x B ch. (or 18 Kt— KB4, 
18 B — B sq., etc.), 18. . .K — B sq. left Black with even material and a good 
game, whereas it is very doubtful now whether his attack is worth the piece 
given up. 

(/) 20 Kt— QB5 was by far better, for if 20. . .R— B4; 21 Kt(B6)— Ke, etc. 

(g) White endangers his game step by step. His best plan was now 21 P — R5, 
and if 21...Kt— B6; 22BxPch., 22KxE (or 22...K— Bsq.; 28R— Kt8, 
etc.; or if 22... K— Bsq.; 28BxBch., 28KxR; 24 QxQP ch., etc.); 28 Q 
— Kt 5 ch. , 28 K— B sq. ; 24 Q x Kt, etc. 

(A) Whereas now Black might have safely played 21 . . . Kt x RP, and if 22 E x P 
ch.. 22 K X R;!28 Kt— K6 ch. (or 28 Q— Kt 6 ch., 28 R— Kt8, etc.), 28.. .B x Kt; 
24 Kt X B ch., 24 K— R sq. ; 25 Kt x Q, 25 Kt-B6 ch. ; 26 K— K2, 26 Kt x Q; 
27 PxKt, 27 R— B4, and shonld win. 

(<) Better was 26 Kt— Kt5, and if 26. . .Kt— R6; 27 B— Q sq. 

(J) 29 R X QP would have won without difficulty ; for if 29 . . . P— KKt 4; 80 B x P, 
etc. Or if 29 B X R, 29 Kt x B, and Black will soon lose another Pawn. 

(X;) White has allowed the adverse Pawns to push on too far, and he can do no 
better than to sacrifice a piece for the two most dangerous ones on the K side. 

(I) Black, on seeing that he has no chance to win, decides to play for a draw, and 
he attains that object in an ingenious manner. 

196 

BLACKBXTBNE S GAMES. 

Game No. 153. 

Played in the second round, May 17th. 

DANISH GAMBIT. 

White 

J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— K4 
2P-Q4 

3 P— QB3 

4 B— QB4 

5 KKi^B3 
6BxP 

7 QKt— Q2 

8 O— O (h) 

9 Q^Kt3 
lOPxP 

11 B— E3 ((') 
12PxB 

ISKBr-Ksq ch. 
UExBch. 
15B— Kt5ch.((7) 
16 K— R sq. (/() 
17RxKt 
18B^K5 
19 Q— K3 
20B— Kt2 

21 Q— K4 

22 Q-Q4 
23B— Q3 
24QxKt 
25R— Kt5 

26 Q— K6 

27 Q— Q5 ch. 

Black 

N. MacLeod. 

P— K4 

PxP 

PxP 

KKt— B3 (o) 

PxP 

B— Kt5ch. 

P— Q3 

B~Kt5(c) 

P— Q4 (d) 

BxQKt 

BxKt 

Kt— Ktsq. 

BxR 

K<^K2 

Kt— Q2 

0—0 

Kt— Kt3 

Q— B3 

KR— B sq. 

KtxP 

Q— KKt3(t) 

R— Qsq. 

Kt— B5 

RxB 

RxBP 

P— KB3(/) 

Q— B2 

(/) 

28RxPch. 
29QxR 
SOP— KR4 

31 K— R2 

32 Q— QB3 

33 K— R3 
34K— Kt3 
36 K— B4 

36 K— K3 

37 P— B3 

38 K— Q3 

39 K— K3 
40QxQ 

41 K— B4 

42 BxR 
43KxP 
44P— QR4 
45K— Q5 
46 K— B6 
47KxP 
48K— Kt7 
49KxP 
50KxP 
51P— R5 

52 P— R6 

53 K— R5 

54 K— Kt 6 

55 K— R5 

56 Resigns. 

KxR 
R— K sq. 
Q— Kt3 
R— K8 
Q— Kt8 ch. 
Q— R8 ch. 
R— Kt8ch. 
QxRPch. 
Q— R6 ch. 
Q— K3 ch. 
Q— Q4 ch. 
Q— K4 ch. 
R— K8 ch. 
RxQ 
PxBch. 
K— B2 
P— QKt3 
P— KR4 
P— R6 
P— R6 
P— R7 
P queens 
QxP 
Q — R sq. 
K— K2 
K— Q3 
Q— Ktsq 
K— B4 

ch. 

(a) We prefer 4. . .Px P; 5 QBx P, 5 P^-QS. followed by KKt— KR3. 
(6) White could already recover rfine of his Pawns by 8 Bx P ch., and if 8. . . 
KxB; 9Q— KtSclt, e^. 

(c) Black ought not to have delayed Castling any longer. 

(d) This looks feasible, and but for the ingenious sacrifice held in store by the 
opponent it might have been good enough, probably. The right play was, 
however, KB x QKt. 

(e) Profound, beautiful and sound. 

(/) His best defence. If 12 . . . Q— B sq. ; 13 R— K sq. ch. , 13 B x R; 14 Q— K3 ch. , 
and wins. Or if 12. . .K— Q2; 13 QxP, etc. 

{g) Spoiling a fine game. He probably hoped that Black would answer 15. . .P — 
QB3, whereupon 16 P— Q6, 16 PxB; 17 RxKtch. would win the Queen 
without allowing Black to Castle. But he could produce even a better effect 

BLACEBTTRNE S OAKBS. 

197 

sfanplv by 15 Qx P, and if 15. . .Kt— QS (or 15. . .0—0; 16 Bx Kt, 16 Q— B sq. ; 
17 QxR, and wins); 16BxKt, 16 Q— B sq. or — Kt sq.; 17 Q—B6, followed 
by P — Q6 and Q — Q5, with a winning game. 

(A) White conld hare still won the Queen for two Rook.4, with an excellent game, 
by R X Kt ch. In neglecting this and allowing the opponent to Castle, with 
the exchange behind, he either misjudges his position or he trifles with his 
young opponent. 

(t) Black's play, after his narrow escape, is of a high order. Of course, he may 
allow the Knight to be taken, for he would recover the piece by P— QB3 with- 
out giving the opponent time for the only dangerous attack by R — Kt 5. 

{J) Mr. MacLeod qualifies himself, with the latter part of this game, as a dangerous 
tournament opponent for first-class masters when they are not up to their 
mark. Black has now an easy task to win. 

Game No. 153. 

Flayed in the first round, March 27th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

While 

Black 

J. H. Blackbume. D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q3 
5B— KKt5(o) 
6B— Kt3(6) 
7Kt— B3 
8B— KE14 
9K^^R4 
lORPxKt 

11 P— B3 

12 P— QKt4 

P— K4 
QK1^B3 
B— B4 
Kt-B3 
K1^QR4 
P— B3 
P— KR3 
P-Q3 
KtxB 
B— Kt 5 ch. 
B— R4 
B— B2 

13 P— B4 

14 Kt— B3 
15B— Kt3 
16K<^-Q2 

17 P— B3 

18 Q— B2 

19 Kt— K2 
20PxP 
21KtxKt 

22 K— K2 

23 KB— QKt sq. 
24P— Kt4 

25 P— B6 

26RxR 

27PxP 

B— K3 
P— KKt4 
Kt^R4 

Kt— Kt2(c) 
Kt-R4 
P— B3 
P— R4(rf) 
KtxB(e) 
BxRP 
P— R4 
K— B2 
B-Kt3(/) 
RxR 
PxP(gr) 
Q— Q6 

(a) Kt — B3 is the natural and better move. 

(6) P— QR8 is the correct play here, for if Black exchange Knight for Bishop, 
White, at any rate, will keep command of the centre.. 

(c) Black has obtained the superior game, and he might have much improved his 
pasition by Kt— B5, for White was bound to capture the Knight, whereupon 
the KtP would retake, opening a strong attack by Q— Kt 4 or B— KKt sq. 

(d) This only relieves the adversary of a troublesome doubled Pawn. 

(e) He ought tahave still reserved that Knight for entrance later on at KB5. 

(/) B— Ba was certainly better, and he ought not to have allowed his QP to be 
exchanged, for it afforded him good attacking opportunities later on by push- 
ing it to Q4. ' '^ 

(9) Again B— B2 was preferable, in order that the opponent .should not obtain an 
open QKt file and should not be relieved of his weak QKtP. 

198 

BLACEBtTBME S QAXEIS. 

28 R— QB sq. 

29 H— QKt sq. 
30PxP.en pass. 
31QxP 
32RxB 

33 K— B2 
UKir-K2 
35R— R6 
36 R— R7 ch. 
37R— K7 
38 R— Kt 7 
39R-Kt6 
40RxQ 
41P— Kt3(A) 
42 K— K3 
43R-Q6 
44K— B2 
46Rr-Q2 
46 Kt— Kt sq. 
47Rr-R2 
48KtxP 
49 Kt— Q2 

60 R— R sq. 

61 K— K3 
62R— QBsq. 
63Rr-B5 
64R— B3 

65 K1^K4 
56Kt— Q2 
67P— R3 

B— B2 

58 Kt^B3 

P— Kt4 

69 Kt^R4 ch. 

BxP 

60R-B7 

R— Qsq. 

61K— B2 , 

QxQPch. 

62 R— Kt 7 ch. 

Q X Kt ch. 

63 R^KB7 

Q R7 

64R— K7 

Q Kt6 

65 Kt— B3 

K— Kt3 

66 K— Kt sq. 

B— B2 

67 K— B2 

Q— B5 

68P— Kt4 

QxQ 

69PxP 

R--Q7 

70KtxP 

R— Kt7 

71 Kt— Q7 

B— K sq. 

72K— Kt3 

R— Kt 6 ch. 

73 Kt^K5 

B— Kt4 

74 K1^B3 ch. 

P— Kt5 

75KxB 

B Q6 

76 K— B2 

PxP 

77R— K2 

BxP 

78K— Kt2 

B Kt8 

79 R— R2 

R— Kt7 

80K— B2 

B— R7 (t) 

81K— Kt2 

B-Q4 
B-Kt2 

82 K— B2 

83R— Kt2 

B— R3 

84R— B2 

K— B4 

86 R— K2 ch. 

R— R7 

86 K— B3 

R— R8 

Drawn 

B— Kt2 
K— Kt4 
R^R6ch. 
B— K5 
K— R3 
R— R3 
B— Kt3 
Rr-R7ch. 
R— R8ch. 
B— B4 
PxP 
BxP 
B-R4 0") 
P— B4 
R-R4 
K— Kt4 
BxKt 
R— R6ch. 
K— B5 
R— R6 
R— K6 
R-Q6 
B^B6 ch. 
R— K6 
R— K5 
R— R5 
K— K6 
K— Q5 

game. 

(h) The Pa^nis on the E side are now 'loosened and their defence gives him mach 
trouble later on. 

(i) Black has veiy cleverly gained a Pawn, but here his best plan was to retreat 
B — KB4, followed by 1^37 or else by R— Kt 5, with the view of advancing 
P— R6. 

(J) In a very large number of positions Rook and Bishop win against Rook, 
theoretically, and he had certainly more chance of success in actual play with 
a piece ahead than by merely keeping a Pawn plus. 

BLACEBCBN^ 8 OAIfZS. 

199 

Game No. 154. 

Played in the second round, April 20th. 

CENTBE COUNTER GAMBIT. 

White 

Black 

D. M. Martinez. ' J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— K4 

2PxP 

3 P— Q4 (a) 

4 QK1^B3 
5B— Q3 

6 P— KR3 (b) 

7Kt^B3 

8Kir-K2 

9 KI^KS (c) 
lOPxKt 
IIB— K4 
12P— KB4 
13P— B4 
UP— QKt3 

15 B— K3 (d) 

16 O^O (e) 

17 R— Kt sq. 

18 B— QB2 
19Z<^Kt3 

P— Q4 
KK1^B3 
QxP 
Q-Q sq. 
P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 
0-0 
QK<^-Q2 
KtxKt 

Klr-Q4 

P— QB3 
Q-B2 
Kt— Kt3 
Kt— Q2 
Ktx P 
Kt— Q2 
Kt-B3 
P— B4 
P— Kt3 

20 Q— K sq. 

21 P— B5 
22Q— B2 
23B— B4 
24PxKP 
25 Q— K2 
26B— K5 

27 QR— K sq. 

28BxKt 

29 B— K4 (h) 

30BxQ 

31BxR 

32KxR 

33B— B7 

34B— Q6 

35BxB(t) 

36K— B2 0') 

37PxP 

38 Kt— B sq. 

39Kt— Q2 

40P— Kt3 

41 K— K3 

B— Kt2 
QB^Q sq. 
P-K3 (/) 
Q— B3 
PxP 
R^Q5 
R— Q2 

KR-Qsq.(9) 
R— Q7 
RxQ 
RxR 
RxRoh. 
BxB 
P— QKt4 
B— Bsq. 
KxB 
PxP 
B— Kt2 
K— K2 
K-Q3 
P— QR4 
P— R5 

(o) We prefer 8 P — QB4, 8 P — QB8; 4 P — Q4, 4 P x P; 5 P— B5, with the 

majority of Pawns on the Q side and a very good game. 
(6) 6 Kt— B8, and if 6. . .B— Kt5; 7 Kt— K8, 7 B x Kt; 8 Px B presents a better 

position for White than he obtains after the undue precaution in the text. 

(c) Premature. He ought to have waited with this entrance until the adverse 
QKt removed, and in the meanwhile he ought to have advanced P — QB3. 

(d) White allows himself to be caught. A valuable Pawn is now lost 
(«) Of course if 16 P x Kt, 16 Q x P, attacking Rook and Bishop. 

(/) Instead of allowing the KP thus to be Isolated, which drawback is scarcely 
compensated by opening the KB file, we would have retreated Kt — K sq. , 
threatening to exchange by B — Q.i or else to play B— K4, followed by Kt — Q3. 

(ff) Black seems to take chances in this position, for strict calculation proves this 
to be incorrect. 

(A) White stru^led manfully against the large odds of a Pawn in such powerful 
hands. With a little more fortitude at this decisive juncture he would have 
carried the day. 29 Q— K4, 29 R x P ch. ; 80 K x R, 80 Q— B2; 81 B x R left 
White three pieces, including two Rooks, and a strong attack for the Queen. 

(t) He had a better chance by retaining this Bishop, for if he succeeded in ex- 
changing his Knight for the hostile KB, he would remain with Bishops of op- 
posite colors, and the draw would be ea-sily effected. 

(i) P X P first, in order to keep his own Pawns on the Q side together, was better. 

200 

BLAOEBUBNE 8 GAMES. 

42 P— QE3 (k) 

43 Kt— Kt sq. 
44K<^B3 

45 Ki^-Q sq. 

46 Kt— B3 

47 Kt— K2 

48 Kt— B3 (0 

49 P— Kt 4 (m) 
60 Kt— K4 
SlKtxBP 

K-K4 

52KtxRP 

P— Kt4 

53 K— B3 

B— B3 

64Kt— Kt6 

B— K5 

55 Kl^-Q7 

B— B7 

56 K— B2 

P— R4 

57 K— K sq. 

P— E5 

58 K<^B6 

B— Kt6(n) 

59 Kt— R7 

BxP 

60 Resigns. 

B B8 

(p) 

BxP 
K— Q5 (o) 

P— K5 ch. 
P— K6 ch. 
BxP 
B— B6 
P— Kt5 

(k) Subsequently Black's Bishop gains entrance at White's QKt 3 in consequence 

of this unnecessary' advance. 
(Z) P — 114 was his only hope. His game was sure to be lost if he allowed his 

Pawns, at a distance 'from his King, to be fixed on squares of the color of the 

adverse Bishop, 
(m) It becomes worse now as he does not exchange, for two Pawns instead of one 

will be liable to capture in the end. 
(n) The onus of moving is now cleverljr thrown on the opponent, and Black is 

sure to snap oS some Pawns that are in his way either with the King or with 

his Bishop, 
(o) With this fine stroke the adverse King as well as his Knight are cut off from 

any communication with the K centre that might stop the advancing KP. 
(p) If 57 K— B8, 87 B X P ch. ; 68 K— Kt 8, 58 P— B6 ch., etc. 

Game No. 155. 

Played in the first round, March 29th. 

FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 
J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— K4 

2P-Q4 

3 QKt— B3 

4K1^B3 

5B— Q3 

6 P— K5 (b) 

7B— Q2 

8QxKt 

9 0—0 
10 Q— K3 
llPxB 
12 Kt-Q2 

Black 
J. Mason. 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
QKt-B3 (a) 
B— Kt5 
Kt— B3 
Kt— K5 
KtxB 
P— KR3 (c) 
0-0 
BxKt 
Kt— R4 
P— QKt3 

13 P— KB4 ((I) 
14R— B3 
15Rr-Kt3 
16PxPenpa88. 
17 R— KB sq. 
18PxP 

19 P— B3 

20 Q— K sq. 
21R— R3 
22 QR— B3 
23P— Kt4 
24Q— Kt3 

26 P— Kt 5 (/) 
26PxP 
27Q— R4 

Q-K2 
P— QB4 
P— B4 (e) 
QxP 
PxP 
Kt^B3 
Kt— K2 
Kt-B4 
Kt— Q3 
B— Q2 
R— B2 
Kt— K sq. 
PxP 
Q-<j8q. 
Kr-B4(gf) 

BLIOEBUBNE's aAlCES. 

201 

28BxB 

PxB 

81P— KtCch. 

K— B8(A) 

29R— K3 

K— Bsq. 

92EB^Et8 

Besigns. 

30Q— B8oh. 

K— B2 

(a) Not advisable in this opening, for in the large majority of its forms it is of the 
greatest importance for Bl^k to advance P— QB4 as early as possible, and 
this Pawn is now blocked. 

(6) The play on both sides has been irregular, but it might have been turned into 
an old variation, favorable to the first player, at this point by 7 P x P, 7 P x P; 
8 0-0, and if 8. . .QB— Kt5; 9 Kt— K2, 9BxKt; 10 PxB, and White has 
the better game with his two Bishops and the prospect of an attack on the 
K side after removing K— B sq. 

(c) Not good. As will be seen it furnishes very soon a mark for the hostile 
attack on that wing. 

(d) Formidable as this looks and actually turns out, we would have much pre- 
ferred dissolving the doubled Pawn on the Q side by 18 P— QB4, for if 18 ... P 
x P; White comd either obtain the better position by 14 Kt x P, or he might 
win the exchange by Q — K4. 

(e) Whereas now Black could obtain the superior position on the Q side by 16. . . 
P— B6; with no harm to fear for his King, for if 16 P— B5, 16 PxP; 17 Qx 
P, 17 P— B8; 18 B— K2, 18PxP; 19PxP, 19 Q x P, threatening Q x R witi a 
Pawn ahead and the better game. 

(/) Whitens attack is conducted with relentless power. 

iff) 27.. .K— B sq. afforded no more relief on account of 28 Bx B ch., 28 K x B; 

29 P— Kt 6 ch., 29 K— B sq. ; 30 B^B8 ch., 80 K1r-B8; 81 Q— R8 ch., 81 B^— 

K3; 82 Q X P ch., and wins a piece. 
(h) EquaUj fatal was 81. . .KxP; 82 Q-R5ch., 82 K— B8; 88 R (B8)— Kt8, and 

mates m a few moves. 

Game No. 166. 

Played in the aeoond round, April 23d. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

WkUe 

Black 

J.Mason. 

J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Et6 
4 0— O 
5P— Q4 

P— K4 
QKt-B3 
Kt— BS 
P-Q3(a) 
PxP 

6KtxP 

7BxKt(6) 

SQEt— B3 

9P— B4 

lOKl^BS 

UB— K3 

12 Kt— K2 

18P— B4 

B— Q2 
PxB 
B-K2 
0—0 

Kl^K 8q. (c) 
P-Kt8 
Kt— Kt2 
Q— Bsq. 

(a) Beoommended in the " Modem Chess Inatractor " on the previons move, but if 

adopted at the present stage, it allows the fitst player a strong attack. 
(6) We prefer 7 Kt x Kt, 7 P x Kt; 8 B— Q8, etc. 
(e) Much better was 10. . .P— Q4; and if 11 P— K6, then 11 . .KIh-E sq. 

202 

BLACEBDBNE 8 0A1CB& 

14B— Q4 
15P— QKt3 
16B— Kt2 
17 Kt-B3 
18Kt— Q5 

19 Q— Q2 

20 QR— K sq. 
21P— KR3 
22K^^R2(e) 
23PxP 
24Br-B3 
25QxBch. 
26Kt— Kt4 
27 K<^B2 
28Q— Q3 

29 P— KKt4 

30 P— B5 (/) 

31 Br-KB sq. 

32 P— K5 (h) 

33 Ki^K4 
34BxP 
35 P— B6 

P— B3 (d) 
P-QB4 
B— B3 
Q— Kt6 
B— Qsq. 
P— QR4 
P— R5 
Q-Q2 
PxP 
Er-Kt sq. 
BxKt 
Q-K3 
P— R4 
Er— Ksq. 
Q-B2 
P— R5 
P— Kt4 
Rr-Kt 3 (g) 
QPxP ^ 
B— K2 
PxB(i) 
Kt— K3 

36PxB 
37KtxKtP 

38 Q— K3 

39 Kt-K4 
40KtxP 
41K— R2 
42 R— K sq. 
43QxP(A:) 
44RxQ 
46R— B2 

46 R— K8 ch. 

47 Rr-K7 ch. 
48R— B8 

49 R^B6 ch. 
50R— K5 

51 K1^K6 

52 K— R sq. 

53 R (B6)— B6 

54 K— R2 

KiH-B5 
QxKP 
R— KKt3(/) 
Br-Qsq. 
Q— Kt2 
R— Q5 
KtxP 
QxQ 
Kt— Kt4 
RxKtP 
K— Kt2 
K— R3 
R— Kt sq. (0 
K— R4 
P— R6 
R-Kt 7 ch. 
R— QKt7 
Rr-Kt 8 ch. 
R-Kt7ch. 

And after some repetitions of 
moTes on each side the game was 
declared drawn. 

(d) Black's pieces are now fearfully blocked up and a hole is formed in his 
centre. R — K sq., followed by KB — B sq., was more likely to relieve him. 

(e) Feeble play, more especially as 22 P — K5 was strongly indicated for the 
attack. The following was then a likely continuation to occur : 22. . .QP x P; 
28 BPxP, 23 BxKt; 24 PxB, 24 B— K2; 26 P-K6, 25 Q— Q8; 26 Kt— Kt5, 
26 P X Kt; 27 Q— B3, 27 R x R ch. ; 28 B x B, 28 B— B sq. ; 28 R— B7, and wins. 

(/) Again P — K5, threatening Kt — K4, looked more promising, for if 80... P — B4; 

81 KtPxP, 81 KtPxP (or 81. . .Q or KtxP; 82 Kt^K4, with a fine game); 

82 K — R sq., with a strong attack. 

ig) B — K2 was now a better move and ought to have g^iven Black the superior 
game, for he had nothing to fear on the K side or in the centre, and he could 
concentrate an attack with his Rooks on the QKt file. Eventually he could 
also advance P— QB8, and bring his Knight via K sq. (after removing KR) 
toQB2. 

(h) A fine sacrifice of a Pawn founded on a deep calculation. 

(f) 84. . .R— Q sq.; 86 Q— B3, 85 Kt— K sq., made it less difficult for Black to 
defend. 

U) If 88. . .Q X Kt: 89 R x Kt, etc. 

(k) White permits himself to be intimidated by the adverse bold sacrifice, or else 

he overrated the attack arising from the move adopted. We can see no 

danger to his game after 48 R x Kt, 48 R (Q5) x P; 44 Kt— K4, etc. 
(0 A little pitfall. If White take the Rook, Black would recover the same by 

Kt — B6 ch., at the same time threatening an unavoidable mate, wherever the 

White King may move to in the meanwhile. 

BLA.OEBUBME S OAMEB. 

203 

Game No. 157. 

Played in the seoond round, May lot 

PETEOFPS DEFENCE. 

White 
J. H. Blackbume. 

1 P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 
3P-Q4 
4B— Q3 
5KtxP 

6 O— O (6) 

7 P— QB4 (c) 
8PxP 

9 QKt— B3 
lOB— K3 

11 R— B sq. 

12 Q— B2 

13 P— KE3 
UP— KKt 4 

15 P— R3 (d) 

16 Kt^K4 

17 Q— Q2 (e) 
ISQxKt 
19PxKt 
20Q— K2 
21 K— R2 

Black 

J. Mason. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
KtxP 
P-Q4 
B— K2 (a) 
0—0 
KKt— B3 
KtxP 
KKt— B3 
B— K3 
P— B3 
QKth-Q2 
Kt-Kt3 
P— KE3 
KKt— Q4 
Kt— Q2 
KtxB 
KtxKt 
Q— Kt3 
P-Kt3(/) 
QEr-Qsq. 

22P— B4 
23 QE— Q sq. 
24Kt— B3 

25 P— B5 

26 Er— QKt sq. 
27R^B3 
28PxP 
29BxP 

3D QBr— KB sq. 

31BxBch. 

32 Q— B3 

33 K— R sq. 

34 B— Kt sq. 
36QxB 

36 K<^K4 
37P— Kt5 

38 B— R2 ch. 

39 Q— B3 
40K— Ktsq. 

41 Kt-B3 

42 K— Kt 2 

43 Kt— K2 
44Q— B6ch. 

Q— Kt3 
B— Kt6 
Q-Q5 
KB— Ksq. 
PxP 
R-KBsq. 

(?) 

B— B5 

BxR 

QxPch. 

Q— Kt2 

BxR 

Q-K4 

B— Kt2 

PxP 

K— R sq. 

B— R3 

QxP 

Q— B8 cL 

Rr-Q7clL 

RxB(A) 

B— Kt2 

(a) Much better than B — Q8, though in either case Whitens development remains 
superior. 

(6) White could have sained an important move here by 6 Q — K2, which com- 
pelled Black's Knight to retreat to KB3 or Q3. 

(c) The attack is conducted in the old style of play, but we do not think that it 
compensates the isolation of the QP. 

(d) In order to provide in advance against Kt— QKt5, as one of Black's Knights 
is sure to enter at Q4, but Q — Q sq., with the view of retreating B — Kt sq., 
was better. The hole here formed at QKt 8 becomes very inconvenient 
later on. 

(e) He ought not to have allowed the exchange of his QB which would have 
better retreated to Q2. 

(^) Weak. The hole here formed subjects him to a much stronger attack than he 
would have incurred if he allowed tne adverse KBP to advance to B5 un- 
challenged. 

(g) White has well utilized the mark of attack furnished to him by the opponent 
at the point of our last comment, and he has won a Pawn which ought to have 
given him a lasting advantage, but he now commits an error that costs the ex- 
change and the game. B— B5 was the right play. 

(A) Much stronger was Q — B7, which also won a piece without allowing White 
so many checks. 

^ biaoebubne'b oames.. 

45Q— Q8oh. K— B2 68 Q— B5 ch. Q— Q4 

46Q— Q3ch. K— E3 69 Q— K3 oh. K— Q3 

47Q— Q6cli. K— R4 TOQxBP P— B4 

48 0— K6(t) RxKtch. 71Q— KtSch. K— B3 

49QxBch. K— Kt3 72 Q— K8 ch. K— Kt3 

60Q— K8oh. K— B4 73 Q— K3 K— Kt4 

61Q— Q7oh. K— K5 74 Q— K8 ch. K— B5 

52QxB Q— Q7ch. 75 P— QB4 K— Q5 

63K— Bsq. K— B6 76 K— B2 Q— B4 ch. 

64Q— B7ch. Q— B5 77 K— Kt sq. P— B5 

55Q— Kt3ch. K— KSdisch. 78 Q— B8 ch. Q— K4 

56K— K2 Q— B7ch. 79 Q— Q8 ch. K— K5 

57 K— Bsq, Q— Q7 80 Q— QB8 K— K6 0) 

58Q— K6oh. K— B5 81K— Kt2(ife) P— B6 

69Q— B4ch. K— K4 82 P— B5 Q— Q4 ch. 

60Q— B5ch. K— K5 83 K— Kt sq. K--Q7 

61 Q— K7 ch. K— B6 84 Q— KB8 Q— Q5 oh. (I) 

62Q— B7oh. Q— B5 85K— Kt2 P— B7 

63Q— Kt3ch. K— K5ch. 86 Q— K7 P queens 

64K— K2 Q— B7ch. 87QxKtPch. K— Q8 

65 K— Bsq. Q— Q7 88 Q— B5 ch. K— K8 

66Q— K6ch. K— B5 89 Q— K8 ch. Q (B8)— K6 

67 Q— B4 ch. K— K4 90 Besigns. 

(i) White makes a, fine resistaace, and he recovers a whole Rook by this excellent 
move, bat he already sacrificed too much, and he has to succumb to the super- 
iority of Pawns which the adversary retains. 

0') Black has patiently advanced with his King and has cleverly parried all 
attempts of the opponent to obtain a perpetual check. The fight on both sides 
has beien in the main a tedious one, but here a very interesting and instructive 
point arises, and Black's play is highly to be commended. 

(k) He could not capture either Pawn on account of 81 . . . Q — Kt 0 ch. ; 82 K — R 
sq., best, 82 Q x RP ch. ; 88 K— Kt sq., 88 Q— Kt 6 ch. ; 84 K— R so., and then 
accordingly Black would force the exchange by Q — R5 ch. or Q — B6 ch., and 
win either with the <^BP which would queen first with a check, or with QKtP 
after fetching with his King the adversary's last Pawn. 

(I) This powerful move cuts off all hope for the opponent. 

Oame No. 158. 

Played in the first round, March 26th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White Black 3 B— B4 B— B4 

W. H. K. Pollock. J. H. Blackbume. p. p qo p qo 

IP— K4 P— K4 6QKt— Q2 Q— K2 

2KKt— B3 QKt— B3 7 Kt— B sq. B— K3 

biacebubne's games. 

205 

0—0—0 (a) 
PxB 
B— Kt3 
P— QIU 
QKt— Kt sq. 
QKt— Q2 
KEl— Et sq. 
Q— K sq. 
KtxKt 
QKt— Q2 
KtxP 

Kt— R sq. (c) 
P— QKt3 
KtxP 

P— Kt6 
Kt-B4 
RxP 
Q— Kt3 
KB— Qsq. 
PxB(/) 

(?) 

30 Kt— R7 ch. 
31Q-B4 
32Q— Kt5ch. 
33 K1H-B6 
34Kt— Et8 

35 Kt— B6 

36 Kt— Kt8 

37 Kt— B6 
38Q— Kt7 
39 R^Kt 3 
40Kt— K7ch.(t) 
41Q— B8ch.(j) 
42 R— Kt3 
43QxKt 
44Q— B3 
46RxPch. 

46 Q— B6 ch. 

47 Q— R4 ch. 
48QxPch. 

49 Q— B3 ch. 

50 Resigns. 

K— Q2 
K— Ksq. 
K— B2 
KR— Q2 
R— Qsq. 
~ 1!2 

sq. 

R— K sq. (h) 
K— Kt sq. 
Q-B7 
RxKt 
K— Kt2 
P— R4 
R-Q8(*) 
KR^-Q2 
PxR 
K— R2 
K— Kt sq. 
K— Bsq. 
Q— B4 

8B— Kt3 

9BxBch. 
10 P— QKt4 
IIP— QR4 
12 P— Kt5 
13Kt— K3 
14 0— O 
15K<r-B4 
16 KtxBch. 
17B— K3 

18 P— Kt 6 (b) 

19 Q— Kt3 

20 QR— Kt sq. 
21P— Q4 
22PxP 
23P— B4 
24PxP 

26 Kt— Q4 (e) 
26Q— B2 

27 Kt— Kt 5 

28 Q— B sq. 
29BxKt 

(a) The game has opened on both sides on most approved methods, bat it is more 
osuaTfor either party to take refuge with the ^ng on the K side. 

(6) The attack obtained bv this sacrifice lasts long, but by proper management the 
Pawn ahead on the other side should outlive the assault 

(c) Best, if he wants to keep the Pawn, and good enough, we think. If, however, 
19. . .QKt— <ja; aO Q— Kt5, 30 P— Kt8; 21 Q— B6 ch., 21 K— Ktsq.; 22 QR— 
Kt sq., with a fine attack. 

(d) The adversary is thus allowed to open another file for his Rooks by his next 
Pawn advance. 23. . . Kt— QBl; 28 B x Kt, 23 QP x B; 24 Kt— Kt5, 24 R— Q4; 
and if 24 KR— Q sq., 34 R x KP were safe enough. 

(c) Kt— K sq., followed by Kt— Q8, was much better. If, however, 25 Q— B4, 26 
Px Kt; 2« Qx Kt. 26 Rx P ch.; 27 K— R sq., 27 R x RP ch.; 28 K x R, 88 Q— 
R4ch., and wins. 

(/) Black allows his strongly fortified position of Pawns to be broken up, prob- 
ably in order to get his Knight into play. With a little more patience ne need 
not have minded his Knight being shut up nor any attack on his King after 
20. . .Rx B; 80 Kt— R7 ch., 80 K — Q2 (of course not 80. . .K— Kt sq., on ac- 
count of the reply QxR); 81 R— Q sq. ch., 31 K — Ksq., etc., whereas now 
the opponent obtains the better game, with a sure draw at least. 

(g) If 32 Kt— Be, 32 Q X R; 33 R X Q (or 33 Kt x R, 83 Q— QKt 8, and wins), 38 . . . 
R — Q8 ch., with the superior game. 

(A) Black it not justified in the present position to refuse the draw. 

(t) This loses, while 40 R— KKt8 with the probable continuation 40. . .P— KR4; 
41 P— B3, 41 R— Q7; 42 P x P, 42 P— R5; 43 Kt— K7 ch. gave White a winning 
advantage. 

(J) Lo3s of time. If he meant to hold out, 41 Q x Kt ch. saved a move at any 
rate. 

(*) All hope of escapa is now cut off for White. 

206 

BIACEBUBNE 8 OAXE& 

Game No. 159. 

Played in the second round, April 19th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

Black 

J. H. Blackburne. W. H. K. PoUock. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q3 * 

5 Kt— K2 (a) 

6 0—0 
7P— B3 
8B— QKt6(c) 
9 B— Kt 5 

lOB— KB4 
UB— B2 
12Q— Q2 
13PxP 
UEtxEt 

15 Ktr-B3 

16 Kt-K4 
17BxKt(d) 
18Q— B3 

19 QE^K sq. 

20 Kt— B5 
21P-^»4 

22 K— K sq. 

23 Q— Q2 
24Ki^Q7 

25 Q— K2 

26 Kt-B5 

P— K4 
QKir-B3 
Kt— B3 
B— Kt5 
P-Q3 
B— Kt5(6) 
B— K3 
0—0 
P— KR3 
B— B4ch. 
B— Kt3 
P-Q4 
KtxP 

xKt 

— Q3 
Q— K2 
PxB 
B-Q4 
P— B3 
P— QR4 (e) 
Q— B2 
KB— Ksq. 
Q-BA 

Br-BSif) 

Q— B2 
QR-B sq. 

27 P— QB4 
28BxB 

29 Q— K4 

30 B— Q sq. 
31Br— B2 
32 Q— K sq. 
33KE— Q2 
34Q— Kt3 
35P— B4 
36PxP 

37 B— Q4 

38 Q— B2 

39 Q— Kt sq. 
40B— B3 

41 R— K sq. 
42QxR 
43 P— Q4 
44P— R3 
45R— K2 
46 P— Q5 
47P— QKt3 
48Er-K3 
49BxRP 
50RxB 
51QxQ 
52BxP 
53P— R6 
54P— Q6 
55 P— R6 

BxKt 
B— K3 
Q— Q2 

QB^Ktsq.(<?) 
B— B4 
R— R sq. (h) 
B— Kt3 
Q— B2 
QR— Kt sq. 
RxKP 
Rr-KKt4 
Rr-KB4 
Q— Q2 
R— Ksq. 
RxR 
R^R4 
Q— Q3 
K— R2 
P-QB4 (i) 
Q-B5 
B— B4 
B— B7 

R-K4(y) 

QxR(A;) 

PxQ 

BxP 

BxP 

B— Kt4 

Resigns. 

(a) In consequence of Black's last irregular move a sort of Lopez defence with a 

move ahead might have been formed by White here, by Kt — KB8. 
( 6) The two players have taken each other quite out of the books. Though not 

much harm is done by the last move, it can be no advantage to induce the 

opponent to fortify his K centre. 
(c) White being some moves ahead and, being well guarded in the centre, might 

have tried here Kt — Q5, a move which used to be much in favor with the late 

Mr. Zukertort in similar positions that sometimes arose from the Three 

Knights Game or the Doable Ruy Lopez. 
((2) White now obtains by this a fairly promising attack against the adverse 

weakened Q side, 
(e) The advance of this Pawn only exposes the same still more for the end. Q — 

B3 at once, followed by KR— K sq., were l)etter. 

biaoebubne's games. 207 

(/)A curious and inffenious resource but for which Black^s game would be 
broken up, for the latter would be compelled to exchange his 1^ in order not 
to lose a Pawn, and White would retain Knight against Bishop for the ending 
in a most favorable position for his side, on account of Black^s isolated and 
doabled Pawns on the Q wing. 

{g) Loss of time, as will soon be seen. 

(A) Of course he is bound to retreat again, as he cannot afford to lose the BP. 

(t) The long manoeuvring of both parties did not effect any impression, and by 
the nature of the game a draw ought to have ensued, chiefly on account of the 
Bishops being of opposite colors. The move in the text, however, greatly 
compromises Black*s position, for it shuts out the Rook from protectmg the 
important RP and provokes the further advance of a hostile Pawn that in the 
enaing would have had difficulty to assert itself if Black's QBP had been kept 
unmoved at QB3. 45. . .B— B3; 46 P— Kt3, 46 Q— R6; 47 <^Kt sq. ch., 47 B 
— Kt 3; 48 Q—Kt 2, 48 Q— Q3, were his proper defence for a draw. 

(J) His game was now bad already, but he deprives himself of all chance of a 
good resistance by this blunder. 

(A) No better was 50...PxR; 51 BxP, and if 51...BxP; 62 Q— Kt sq. ch., 52 
K— Rsq.; 53QxB, 53Q— B8ch.; 54 K— R2, 54Q— B5ch.; 55Q— KKt3, 
and wins. 

Game No. 160. 

Played in the first round, April 3d. 

QUEEN'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White Black 6QxP Kt— B3 

J. H. Blackbm-ne. J. W. Showalter. g g^Q^Q /jx pZ^4 ^^^ 

IP— Q4 P— Q4 9P— K3 B— QB4 

. 2P— QB4 P— K3 lOPxP PxP 

3KKt— B3 KKt— B3 11 Kt— Q5 Q— K4 (c) 

4Kt— B3 P— B4 12BxKt PxB 

5 B— Kt5 PxQP 13 KtxP ch. K— B sq. (rf) 

(a) So early in the opening the positions were naturally well balanced up to this 
point, when Black commits himself to a grave error of position judgment that 

Sractically delivers his game to a powerful hostile attack. 7 . . . P x P; 8 R— 
j sq., 8 B — Q3 would have kept the game still even. 

(6) Mr. Blackbume enters at once on the road to victory which is clear to his keen 
perception. 

(c) Every one of Black's moves since his 7th was forced, unless he submitted to 
to the loss of a Pawn at once. But now he could only choose the manner of 
losing it, and the option selected involves his King in difficulties from which 
he cannot extricate himself, whereas 11 . . .B — K2 left more show of a fight. 

{d)li 13...K— Qsq.; UKtxQP, 14KtxKt; 15RxKtch., 15BxR; 16 Qx 
B ch., 16 K— B2 (or 16. . .K— K2; 17 Kt— Q5 ch., 17 K— Q3, best [if 17. . .K— 
Q2; then 18 B— Q3, or if 17. . .K elsewhere; 18 Q— B6 ch., and wins in a few 
moves]; 18 Kt— B3 disch., followed by Qx R); 17 Q— B4 ch., 17 K— B3; 18 B 
— K3, with an irresistible attack. 

208 

BIAOEBUBNB 8 OAMES. 

Position after White's 16th moye 

BxB 

Black— J. W. Showalter. 

14 Er-K sq. B— K3 

15 BxB (e) PxB 

16 Q— E6 ch. K— B2 (/) 
17K<H-Kt6ch. K— K2 

18 Q— Kt 7 ch. K— Q3 

19 Q— Q7 ch. (g) K— K4 
20QxKPch. K— B6 
21 EI^BS mate. 

White— J. H, Blackbume. 

(e) In grand style. See diagram. 

(/) If E— K3 at once, mate is effected in two moves by Q— Kt 7 ch. and Q — Q7 

nmte. 
(g) Having probably in his forecalculation of other variations relied on this move. 

White adopts the same without noticing that he could mate at once by Kt 

(B8>-K4. 

Game No. 161. 

Clayed in the second round, April 29th. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

White 
J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2E£i-B3 
SB— Kt5 
4P— 04 
SBxKt 
6Kt— B3 
7KK<^E4 
80—0 
9P— B4 
lOBxP 

11 P— Q5 

12 Q— Q4 (c) 

13 Kt— B3 (e) 

Bhcik 
J. H. Kackbnme. 

P— K4 
QK1H-B3 
P-^3 
B— Q2 
BxB 
P— B3 
P— KKt8(o) 
Q— K2 
PxBP 
0—0-0 (ft) 
B-Q2 
P— Kt3(d) 
P— KKt4 

14 B— K3 

15Klr-Q2 

16 P— QE4 

17P— B5 

18QxB 

19PxP 

20 K<r-B4 (a) 

21KtxKtP(A) 

22KtxEO*) 

23B— B3 

24 KR—R sq. 

25 Q— K2 (k) 
26Q— B6 
27Kt— B4 
28BxB 

29 E— B sq. 

P— Kt6 
P— KB4 
B— B3 
BxB oh. 
K— Kt2 
BPxP(/) 
E— Esq. 
B— K sq. (t) 
KxKt 
E-E2 
P— KE5 

a*- 

BxEt 
Q— B4ch. 
E— QB2 

BIACKBTJBNE'S GAME& 209 

30E(E4)— B3 P— R6 44 P— R4 P— R5 

31R~QB3 Q— B7 45R— KKt3 K— Q3 

32Q— Bsq. Q— Kt3 46 K— B5 K— K2 

33B— B6 PxPch. 47 B-QR3 K— B2 

34KxP Q— Ktsq. 48 P— B4 Kt-K2 ch. 

35B(B6)— B6 RxR 49K— Kt4 Kt— Kt3 

36PxR Kt— K2 50RxP K— Kt2 

37Q— E6(0 QxP 51B-R5 K— R3 

38Q— Kt7ch. (m) 52 E^KB6 K— Kt2 

QxQ 53P— B5 Kt— K2 

39PxQch. KxP 54 R— Bsq Kt— B3 

40K— Kt3 P— Q4 55K— B5 Kt— Q5 ch. 

41PxP KtxP 56K— K4 Kt-Kt6 

42B^Kt3ch. K— B3 57 K— Q5 Resigns. 

43 KxP P— R4 

(a) We much prefer 7. ..KjIh-K2; for if 8 O— O, 8PxP;9QxP, 9 Kt— Kt8; 10 

Kt— B5, 10 Kt— K4; followed by P— KKtS or Kt— B2, with a good game. 
(6) This hazardous move is severely punished by the opponent's well-formed attack 
( that follows. 

(c) Finely played. He can well afioiM to give up a piece in this position. 
(^If 12...P-KKt4;'18QxRP, 13 P— QB4; 14 P x P in passing, 14PxP(or 

14. . .BxP; 15 Kt— B5, etc.); 15 R— B8, and if Black tsJae either piece, then 

the reply Kt— Q5 wins, for if then P xKt, White checks with the Rook at B8 

and mates in a few moves. 
(e) White could still give up the piece and advance the QRP, e. g.^ 18 P — QR4, 18 

P— KKt4; 14P— R6, 14PxBorKt; 15PxP, 15RPxP; 16 Q— B4, 16 B— 

K sq. ; 17 R — R7, with an irrestible attack. 
(/)If RPxP, White could have proceeded to double the Rooks, commencing 

with R— R8. 
(g) Threatening Rx P ch., followed by Q x P ch. and R— R sq. mate. 
Qi) Beautiful play, 
(t) He had nothing better, for if P x Kt, the answer RxR, followed by Q x KtP, 

wins. 
(J) We should have preferred retaining the Knight by withdrawing it to B4, 

threatening Kt — R5 ch. and R — R8, but the capture is good enough. 
iJC) White might have won the Queen for two Rooks by R x P ch., and remained 

with a winning superiority, but the opponent's Rook and Bishop against the 

Queen might l^ve made some troublesome fight. 
(0 He could have made shorter work of it by 37 P— B7, 87 Q— Kt 2; 88 Q— B4» 

88 Kt^B sq. ; 89 Rr-Kt 3, 89 Kt— Kt 8; 40 R— Kt, and wins, 
(m) Simple and decisive. After this the ^ame presents no further points of 

interest, as White's natural superiority wms with ease. 

210 

biaoebubke'b oameb. 

Game No. 16S. 

Played in tiie first roxind, April 6th. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

J. Tanbenhaus. J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— K4 
2 KK<^B3 
3B— Kt5 
40-0 
5K<^B3 
6P-Q4 
7KtxP 
SKtxKt 
9B— Q3 
lOP— KR3 
11K<^K2 
12 P— QB3 
13P— KB4 
14 K1^Q4 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
P--Q3 
B— K2 
PxP 
B— Q2 
PxKt 
0-0 
Ki^Ksq. 
B— B3 
P— Kt3 
R— Ktsq. 
Kt— Kt2 

15 Kt— B3 
16P— K5 
17Q— B2 
18P— KKt4 
19QxB 
20 Kt-Q4 (a) 
21K— Kt2(6) 
22PxB 
23R-B2 
24B— K3 

25 PxP 

26 Q— Q sq. 

27 PxP 
28BxB 
29RxKt(e) 
30QxPch. 
White forfeited 

P-Q4 
B— K2 
B— KB4 
BxB 
P— KB4 
B— B4 
BxKt 
Kl^K3 
E^Kt5 
PxP 

!-R5 (c) 
B4 

!RxBP(rf) 

-txB ch. 
RxR 
K— Bsq. 
by time limit (/) 

f- 

(a) For the purpose of keeping his Pawns on the K side in attacking order it was 
necessary for his Knight to guard against the entrance of the hostile Queen on 
the K wing after Black removed Sie Bishop. K — Kt 2, and eventually K — 
Kt 3 after^nurd, was his best play. 

(6) But having played as he did on the last move, he had nothing better than to 
close the avenue of attack for Black's Queen on the K side by P — Kt 5. We 
should have then still preferred White's game on account of his strong passed 
Pawn on K5, and owing to the opponent's Pawns on the QB file being doubled. 

(c) Black now assumes the attack and pursues the same with his wonted mastery. 

(d) This powerful blow strikes at the root of the adverse position on the K side, 
and the latter^s game must soon fall to pieces. 

(e) Nothing better. If K— B sq., the Queen mates at R8, and in reply to K— B8 
or — Kt sq., the answer Kt — R6 ch. wins. 

(/) White at this point forfeited the game by time, but it was hopeless anyhow. 
If 81 R— KB sq. , 81 Q X P ch. ; 33 K moves, 82 Q— Kt 4 ch., followed by R x R, 
and White's Queen will also be lost soon. 

White 

J. H. Blackbume. 

IP— Q4 
2P-<JB4 

Game No. 163. 

Played in the second round, May 6th, 

QUEEN'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

Black 3 KKt— B3 

J. Taubenhaus. 

P— ( 
P— I 

4 Kt— B3 

5B— B4 

6P— K3 

7Q— B2 

KKt— B8 
B— K2 
0-0 
P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 

biackbubne's games. 211 

8PxP PxP 16RxKt KtxE 

9 B— Q3 QK1^Q2 17 R— Q sq. B— B3 

10 0—0 P— B4 ISRxKt Q— Kt3 

11 PxP (a) PxP 19B-Q6 KB— Ksq. (e) 

12 QR— Q sq. P— KB3 (b) 20 Q— B4 (/) Q x P 
13B— B5 Kt— R4(c) 21QxPch. K— R sq. 
14KtxP BxKt(d) 22P— Kt4 Resigns. 
15RxB KK1r-B3 

(a) We have always advocated this exchan^ of Pawns in similar situations. The 
adverse Pawn becomes otherwise formidable, as Black may push P — QB5 and 
support that Pawn soon by P— QEt4, with a strong majority on the Q wing 
that especially in the ending becomes dangerous. 

(6) Quite useless. Kt — QKt 8 was evidently better. 

(c) This extraordinary blunder early in the game not alone loses a Pawn, but 
quite disorganizes Black^s position. 

(d) If 14. . .KtxB; 15 KtxB ch., 15 QxKt; 16 BxEt, and wins more easily still. 

(e) If 19. . .KR— Q sq. ; 20 B— B7 leaves no room for further defence. 

(y ) Whitens play is only what could be expected of such a great master when an 
adverse blunder gives him an early opportunity. 

BUBN'S GAMES. 

Game No. 164. 

Played in the first ronnd, April 12th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

miite 
D. G. Baird, 

IP— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

3P— KB4 

4PxKP 

5Q— KB3 

6 B— QKt 5 

TKtPxKt 

8P— Q4 

9Kt-K2 
10 0—0 
llPxP 

12 B— QR3 (c) 

13 Q— Q3 

14 QR— QKt sq. 

15 B— QR6 (d) 
16BxPch. (/) 

17 Q-QR6 

18 B— Q6 (h) 
19QxRP 
20Q— Kt8ch.(i) 
21RxKtch. 

22 Kt— B4 ch. 
23KtxQPch.O') 
24 B— B4 ch. 

Blade 
A. Bum. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
P— Q4 
KtxP 
Kt— QB3 
KtxKt 
B— K2 
B— K3 (a) 
Q— Q2 
P— KB3 (b) 
BxP 
0—0—0 
B— B2 
B— KKt3 
Kt— QR4 (e) 
KtxB 
T-qm (gr) 
KR— Ksq. 
Q— KB2 
K— Q2 
K— K3 
K— B4 
K— Kt4(ifc) 
K— R4 

Poeition after White's 15th move 

B— QR6 

Black— A. Bum. 

White— D. G. Baird. 

25RxQ 
26 KtxB 
27RxP 
28RxP 

29 R— B5 ch. 

30 P— R3 ch. 

31 K— R2 
32KxR 
33 K— B3 

RxQ 
PxKt 
B— QKt? 
RxBP 
K— Kt5 
K— R5 
RxKtPch. 
R— Kt7ch. 
Resigns. 

(o) Black l8 making preparatioos for O— O — O, but he would have been more 
safe by taking shelter on the other wing at once, followed by P — KB3, at the 
earliest opportunity. 

BTTBN's GAlfES. 

213 

(6) Anyhow prematnre. O—O was still best, but if he intended O — O — O, he should 

not have delayed it now. 
(«) Well played. He restricts thereby the adverse option of Castling, being sore 

of a strong attack on the other side on acconnt of the open QKt file, 
(d) This ver^ beantifol stroke has evidently been played for and well prepared 

with White's last two moves. See Diagram. 
(e> Clearly if 15...BxQ, he loses apiece by 16BxPch., 16E— Etsq. ; 

ITBxKtdisch., 17K— Esq. ; ISBxQch. andPxB. 
(/)In most excellent style, and showing genius of a very high order, 
(y) If 17. . .Q— B2; 18 Kx Kt, 18 K— QS; 19 Q— Kt6 ch., and wins. 
(A) White's conduct of the attack up to this cannot be improved upon, 
(t) But with this White somewhat spoils a beautifully played game. The fine 

coup de repos, 20 Kt — B4, would have left Black no escape from mate in a 

few moves. 
0') This leads to a rather prosaic end of a most ingeniously conducted attack. 
(k) He ought not to have allowed the check with the Bishop, which afterwards, 

on the 28th move, enables White to win the QBP. K — Kt 5, would have made 

a better fight of it ; but, of course, his game was lost by proper play on the 

other side. 

Game No. 109. 
Flayed in the second round, May IStli. 

KUY LOPEZ. 

White 
A. Bum. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3 B— QKt 5 
4B— R4 
5P— Q3 
6P— QB3 
7B-B2 
8QKt— Q2 
9 Kt— KB sq. 

10 K<r-K3 (6) 

(o) A novelty, but a somewhat risky one. 

(6) For 10P-Q4, lOPxP; HPxP, IIB— KtSch.; 12 QKt-Q2, would, we 

think, still more improve White's position, 
(c) Q— K sq. at once was clearly better, 
(d) By far better was 22 P— QKt 8, 22 P x QP; 28 Q x QP etc. 
(«) Black on the last move ought to have exchanged Pawns first, while White 

ought no more to have given him that opportunity. 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

P— K4 
QK<r-B3 
P— QR3 
KKt— B3 
B— QB4 
P— QKt4 
0-0 
P— Q3 

Ki^KKt 5 (o) 
P— KB4 

UPxP 
12PxB 

13 0—0 

14 P— K4 
16 Q— K2 (c) 
16 Q— K sq. 
17B— Q2 
18 Q— Kt 3 
19Kt^KE4 
20P— KB3 

21 B^KB2 

22 P— Q4 (d) 

23 B— K3 (e) 

BxKt 
BxP 
B— KKt3 
B— Ktsq. 
B— KR4 
K— Bsq. 
Kt— QR4 
P— QB4 
Q— Q2 
Kt— KB3 
P— QB5 
Kt— QB3 
PxP 

2U 

bUBN's OAHES. 

24PxP 
25 B— QKt sq. 
26BxKt 
27Q— KB4 
28P— K5 
29Q— KKt5 
30QxKt 
31PxP 
32E— Q2 

33 R^K sq. 

34 Q— Kt 5 

35 Kt— B6 

36 P— K6 
37QxQ 
38P— K7 

39 E^-QB sq, 
40R— QB7 
41 Kt— Q6 ch. 
42KtxR 

43 P— QKt 4 

44 R— B6 ch. (t) 
45RxRP 
46K— B2 

47 R (R6)— R2 
48R(R2)— Kt2 
49P— KKt3 
50E--QR2 
51PxP 
52K— Kt3 
63R(R2)— Kt2 
54 K— B2 
55K— KtS 
56P— R4 
57KxR(0 
58RxB 
59RxP 
60R^K4 
61R— KB4 
62 K— B5 
63R— Kt4 
64K— Kt6 
66 R— KtS 

Kt— QKt5 
K1H-Q6 (/) 
PxB 

KR— Ksq. 
Kt— Q4 
KtxB 
PxP 
QR— Q sq. 

Q-Q4 
QxQRP 

B— K7 
Q-B2 (g) 
Q-B3 
PxQ 

R— QR sq. (h) 
K— Kt sq. 
K— B2 
K— K3 
RxKt 
RxP 
K— K4 
K— Q5 
K-B6 0-) 
R— K5 
P— KR4 
P— KB4 
P— R6 
RxKRP 
E^K5 
P— B5 ch. 
P— B6 
R— Q5 

R— Kt5ch.(ife) 
P— B7 ch. 
PxR 
P queens 
K— Q6 
Q— Kt7ch. 
K— K6 
Q— Q4 ch. 
K— B6 
Q— K5ch. 

Position after Black's 59th move 

R— Kt5ch. 

Black— D. G. Baird. 

y 

^B 1 B 
iBiB 

IB ■ 

White— A. Burn. 

66K— Kt7 
67RxKtP 

68 K— R6 

69 K— Kt 6 

70 K— R6 

71 R-QB5 
72K— Kt6 

73 K— B6 

74 R-Kt 5 ch. 

75 R^B5 ch. 

76 R— K5 ch. 
77R— KKt5 
78K— Kt7 
79R— Kt6 
80 K— R sq. 
81R— Kt7 
82K— R7 
83K— Kt8 
84R^-QR7 
85 K— R7 
86K— Kt8 

87 K— R7 

88 Resigns. 

QxRP 
Q— K2 ch. 
Q— Q3ch. 
Q— K2 ch. 
K— Kt5 
Q— K6 ch. 
Q— K5 ch. 
QxP 
K— B5 
K— K5 
K— Q5 
Q— Q3 ch. 
K— K5 
Q— K2 ch. 
K— B4 
Q— K4 (m) 
K— B3 
Q— KR4 
Q— Kt 5 ch. 
Q— R6ch. 
Q— Kt6cL 
Q— R7 ch. 

(/)Black'8 play since the opening moves is of a remarkable fine character. 

(^) 35. . .Q — Ktsq. was superior, and the probable continuation was: 86 Kt — Kt 8, 

86R— Q4; 87 KtxB, 87QRxP; 88Q— Kt4, 88 Q— B5; 80QxQ, 88 PxQ; 

40 K— Esq., 40 K— Ktsq.; 41 P— <JKt4, 41 K— B2, and should win. 
(/i) This turns out better than it deserved. The more simple plan was 88... B — 

Q4; 89 P— KKt4, 89 K— Ktsq. ; 40 K— B2, 40 R x Kt; 41 Px R, 41 K— B2 (not 

41 ... R X P at once on account of the rejoinder R x P), remaining at least with- 

a Pawn ahead. 

BUBN S GAMES. 

215 

(i) A grave error of judgment. He ought to have exchanged Books, followed 

by K— B3, and soon afterward by Rr— QRS, which would have won with 

out difficulty. 
(J) The key to victory. Black's conduct of the ending is quite exemplary. 
(A) Black might have won previously in a simple manner by R x KtP, but he 

most probably aimed at this exceedingly ingenious termination. See diagram. 
(/)Ttwa8 all over. If 57 K— B3, 57Rr— Kt7ch., followed by P— B7, wins 

equally. 

(m) A theoretical position and won according to theory. 

Game No. 166. 

Played in the first round, March 29th. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

16B— R2 

A. Bum. 

J. W. Baird. 

17 Kir-K sq. 
ISKtxKt 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

19 P— B3 

2 KKtr-B3 

QKt— B3 

20 B B2 

3B— Kt5 

P QR3 

21Q— K2 

4B— R4 

Kt— B3 

22E^Q8q. 

5P— Q3 

B— B4 

23 Kt— B2 

6P— B3 

P— QKt4 

24 KE^K sq. 

7B— Kt3 

U' 

26K<^K3 

8 QKi^-Q2 (a) 

26Kt— Q5 

9 Kt— B sq. 

P— R3 

27KtxQ 

lOKt— Kt3 

Kt-K2 

28RxQP 

110—0 

Ki^KtS 

29RxKt 

12P— Q4 
13 B— K3 

B— Kt3 

30BxB 

QR— Kt sq. 

31 K— B2 

14 Q— B2 (b) 

P— B4 

32KxP(e) 
33KtxRP 

16 P QR3 

P— B5 

B— KKt5 
K<^R4 (c) 
BxKt 
Kt— K2 
B— Kt3 
Kt— B3 
Q— B2 
KB- K sq. 
P— KB4 
PxQP 
P— Q6 (d) 
PxQ 

R(K8q.)— Qsq. 
R— Q8 
RxRch. 
R--QR8 
B— B2 
R— Ksq. 

(a) White adopts a sort of Qiuoco Piano attack which, as pointed out in the 
" Modem Chess Instructor," is very effective in most variations of this 
opening. 

(5) A weak move that allows the opponent to obtain the better position on the 
Q side. 

(c) Black could have bettered his position still more by P — Q4 at this juncture- 
He could then reserve playing the Bishop back to the centre at KS, whereaa 
now the Bishop is driven back to the K side. 

{d) Not having calculated as far ahead as his opponent, he allows himself to be 
outgeneralled at a critical point. 26...Q— KB-2; 27 KtxB, 27 BxKt; 
88 B X P, 28 Kt X B; 29 R x Kt, 29 P— Ql; 30 P— KS, best, 30 B-Q3; 31 Q— K3, 
81 B — K5; 82 B — Kt sq., 82 R x P, would have made a perfectly even game of it. 

216 

BmtN'B OAHES. 

34Kt— Kt4 
35P— KB4 
36BxP ' 
37R— B5 

38 P— R3 

39 P— B5 
40K— B2 
41R— B7 
42B— Q4 
43R— K7 
44 B,— K sq. 

(/) 

PxP 
P— K6 
K— R2 
E^-QKtsq. 
B — Kt3 
B— B2 
B— K sq. 
K— Kt sq. 
B— B2 
K— B sq. 
RxR 

45ExB 

46 B— Kt sq. 

47 K— B2 
48B— K4 
49 K— K3 
60K— B4 
51B— Q5 
52 Kt— B6 
63 Klr-K5 
54 B— B5 ch. 
65 B— QB6 ch. 

R— Bsq. 
P— KR4 
P— R5 
B— R4 
R— Ksq. 
B— K7 
R— Bsq. 
B-Q6 
R— B2 
K— Ksq. 
Resigns. 

(e) The depth and ingenuity of White's forecalcolation becomes patent now that 
Black has adopted the line of play that seemingly was most dangerous to the 
opponent 

(/) The adverse Book kept two pieces inactive, and the best plan for White was 
to force an exchange. 

Game No. 167. 

Played in the second round, April 23d. 

DOUBLE BUY LOPEZ. 

18B— Kt3 
19PxKP 
20 P— KR3 (e) 
21KtxKt 
22 K— R2 
23BxP 
24 Q— Kt 3 cL 
25R— B7 

26 QR— KB sq. 

27 B— KKt3 
28KR— B5 
29RxQ 
30PxB 
31R— KKt6 
32B— K6 
33K— Kt3 
34R— KR5 
36 Resigns. 

White Black 

J. W. Baird. A. Bum. 

1 P— K4 P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 QKt-B3 

3 Kt— B3 Kir-B3 
4B— Kt6 B— Kt6 
6 0—0 0—0 
6 P— Q3 P— Q3 
7BxKt(o) PxB 

8 K1^K2 Ki^K sq. 

9 P— QB3 B— B4 
lOB— K3 B— Kt3 
H Q— R4 P— QB4 

12 K<^-Q2 B— Q2 

13 Q— B2 P— KB4 

14 P— KB4 (6) K<^B3 (c) 
16PxKP Kt— KKt6 
16 Kt— QB4 Q— R6 
17B— B4(rf) BPxKP 

(a) The early exchange of Bishop for Knight is disadvantageous. 
(6) The complications arising therefrom are favorable for Black. P— EB3, with 
the view of an ultimate attack in the Q centre, was better. 

Q-R3 
PxP 
Kt-K6 
QxKtch. 
B— B3 
BxP 
K— Rsq. 
R— KKt sq. 

(/) 
Q— KKt4 
B— Q4 
QxR 
BxQ 

KR— KBsq. 
QR— K sq. 
R— B2 
P— R3 
K— R2 

BURN 8 OAME8. 

217 

(c) We querv this and would have preferred 14. . .KPxP; and if ISBxEBP, 
15 P— Kkt 4, followed by P— B5. or if 15 Kt x P, 15 Kt— B3, in each case with 
the better game. 

(d) Whilst now White, it seems, could maintain the Pawn by 17 P — KR3, where- 
upon might have followed 17. . .KtxB; 18 KtxKt, 18P— QB5 (or 18...BP 
xP; 19KPxQP, 19KPxQP; 20Qx P, 20P— B5; 21 Q— Q5ch., 21 K— Rsq.; 
22 Kt-Q4. etc.); 18 P— Q4, 19 QP x P; 20 Kt x QBP, 20 KP x P; 21 Kt x B, 
21 RP X Kt; 23 KP X P with a Pawn ahead. 

(e) If 20 KtxP, 20 KtxKt; 21 BxKt, 21 Q— K6 ch.; 22 K— Rsq., 22 B— B8, re- 
covering the Pawn with the superior game. 

(/ ) An error that costs the game. His be.st plav was 26 Kt — Kt 3, for if 26 ... B x 
P; 27BxPch., 27RxB; 28 RxR, and if 28. . .Q— B7; 29 Kt^R sq. 

Game No. 168. 

Flayed in the first round, March 27th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

H. K Bird. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt-B3 
3B— Kt5 
4 Q— K2 (a) 
5P— B3 
6P— Q3 

7 QKt— Q2 

8 Kt— B sq. 

9 B— Kt5 
10B-K3 

Black 11 P— KR3 (d) 

12Kt— Kt3 
13PxKt(/) 
14 Q— Q2 
16PxP(K4) 

16 KtxP 

17 Q— B2 

18 KtxKt (A) 
19BxRP(i) 
20 P— B3 
21P— KKt3 
22 Besigns. 

P-Q4 

Kt— Q6 (c) 

BxB 

PxKP 

PxP 

QR— Qsq. 

KtxKP(gr) 

BxKt 

KR— K sq. 

Q— R6 ch. 

QxB 

A. Bum. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt-B3 

P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 
0—0 

P— KR3 (c) 
Q— K2 

(a) Often favored by Mr. Bird, but indifferent in its effects mainly for the reason 
that, as a rule, the Queen ought not to be brought oiit early, and it is mostly 
better later on to bring her into play in the centre or on either of the wings. 

(6) A good answer. P — QR3, followed by P — QKt 4, is also good at this juncture, 
but it should be noticed that 4. . .B— B4 would lose a Pawn on account of 5 
BxKt, SQPxP; 6 KtxP, 6 Q— K2 or Q5; 7 Kt— Q3, and if 7. ..KtxP; 8P 
— KB3, wins a piece. 

(c) It makes all the difference when a hostile piece is attacked by this advance 
that often injures the game when adopted without sufficient cause. 

(d) White could have better utilized time by KB — QB4. 

(e) Some preparation move like R — K sq. was, we believe, needed in order to 
make tnis sound. 

(/)For now White could have won the Pawn with a good game by 18 Bx Kt, 
ISBxB (if 18...PxB; 14KtxP); 14 B x KP, 14 P x P; 15 B x Kt, 15 
BxB; 16 KtxP, 16KR— Ksq.; 17 O— O— O. 

((J) Black proceeds now to demolish the adverse position with masterly energy. 

(A)If ISQxKt, 18QxQ; 19KtxQ, 19 BxKt; 20 O— O— O, 20 B x B ch. ; 31 Px 
B, 21 B— B3, and wins. 

(i) A blunder that loses a piece, but White has hardly a good move. 

218 

B€BN 8 GAHES. 

Game No. 160. 

Played in the second round, April 20th. 
SICILIAN OPENING. 

White 
A. Bum. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— KKt3 
4B— Kt2 
6P— Q3 

6 KKt^B3 

7 P— KR3 (a) 

8 0—0 
9Kt-Q6 

10 P— B3 
llKtxKtch. 

12 B— K3 

13 K— R2 
UP— KKt4 
ISKtxB 

16 P— KB4 
17P— Q4 

18 P— Q5 

19 Q— B3 
20P— K6 
21PxP 

22 K— R sq. <d) 

23 Q— K4 (e) 
24B— Kt5 

Black 

H. £. Bird. 

P— QB4 
QKt— B3 
P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 
P-Q3 
P— QR3 
B— Q2 
R— R2 (b) 
P— KR4 
Kt— B3 
BxKt 
Q— Bsq. 
P— R5 

B— K4 ch. (c) 
EtxEt 
Kt— B3 
P— Kt3 
Kt— Q sq. 
P— B3 
QPxP 
Q— Kt sq. 
PxP 
Rr— Kt sq. 
Q— Q3 

26 QRr-K sq. 

26QxP 

27RxQ 

28 KR— K sq. 

29B— K4 

30BxKtP 

31BxPch. 

32 KB— R5 

33Rr-B5 

34RxR 

35P— Kt3 

36RxP(sr) 

37P— Kt5 

38 B— B6 ch. 

39Rr-K2 

40K— R2 

41Rr-KKt2 

42 P— B4 

43B— K7 

44PxP 

45BxP 

46B-K7 

47BxP 

48B— K7 

49 B— B6 

50 R— R6 ch. 
61 P— Kt 6 ch. 

R— Rsq. 
QxQ 
B— Kt4 
R— R2 
K— B sq. 
R— KR sq. 
K— Kt2 
Kt^B2 
RxB(/) 
R-Q2 
B— Q6 
RxP 
B— B4 
K— Kt3 
R— Q6 
P— R4 
P— Kt4 
P— Kt5 
P— R6 
R— R6 
RxP(R5) 

Rr-R6 

R-Q6 
R— K6 
Kt— 03 
K— B2 

Resigns. 

(a) Less objectionable in the present opening, where the KB remains on the K 
side, than in the general open games where the same Bishop is usually re- 
moved to the other wing. 

(6) It is difficult to qualify such a move in the early part of the game. If at all 
feasible at any time, 'its adoption might well have been postponed. 

(c) That only helps Whit« to relieve his KBP for the attack, and it also gives away 
a Bishop for a Knight, leaving White with two Bishops. 

(d) Very clever. Black is now prevented from cupturing KP with the Queen, for 
the latter would then be lost by the answer H — KB4. 

(e) 28 B — R6 (threatening mate in two moves, commencing with Q — B8 ch.) 28 
...B— B4s 24PxB, 24RxB; 23PxP, 25 Bx P (or 25. . .K— Q2; 2e(J— Kt4 
ch., followed by P— Kt7, and wins); 26 Q— B8ch., 36 K— Q2; 27 Q— B6ch., 
winning the Rook, made a quicker end of tlie game. 

(/)Black has little choice. If...33Kt— R3; 84R— Kt5ch., 84 K— B2; 86 B— 

Kt6ch., 35 K — Kt2; 36 R — K6, and wins in a few moves. 
(g) 36 P— B4 was clearly stronger, but White was bound to win with ordinary care, 

and the rest tells its own tale. 

BUBN S GAMES. 

219 

Game No. 170. 

Played in the first round, April 8th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

WhiU 
C. F. Burille. 

IP— K4 
2 KK^-B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q3 
5B— K3 

6 QK^-Q2 

7 K^-B sq. 
8BxB 

9 Kt— K3 

10 P— B3 

11 Kt— Q2 
12B— Kt3 

13 Kt (Q2)— B sq. 

14 Kt-Kt 3 

Black 
A. Bam. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 
K^-B3 
B— Kt3 
P-Q3 
Kt— K2 
RPxB 
Kt— Kt3 
P— B3 
P— QKt4 
0-0 
B— K3 
P— Q4 

15PxP 
16 0-0 
17BxB 
18Q— Kt4 

19 P— QB4 

20 KIU-Q sq. 

21 P— KR4 

22 Kt (Kt 3)— B6 
23P— R5 

24 Kt— R6 ch. 

25KtxPch. 

26QxKt 

27K<^Kt4(e) 

28 Kt^K3 (0 

29QxKP 

30 K— R sq. 

31 P— R6 {h) 

Kt(Q4)— B6(a) 
KtxB 
E— E5 (6) 
Kt (K3)— B5 
Q— E sq. 
Kt-K3 (c) 
Q-Q sq. (rf) 

Kir-K2 

K— E sq. 
ExKt 
Q— KB sq. 
K1^B4 
Kt— Q5 
Kir-K7 ch. 
E— E sq. (g) 
Er-Ksq. 

(«) The play on both sides was so far correct and unexceptionable. Here, how- 
ever, we would have preferred playing the other Knight to the same square, 
in order to keep in hand the advance of the KBP with or without first push- 
ing P — KKt3, according to circumstances. 

(6) 18. . .Q X P; 19 R— Qs(|., would be disastrous. 

(c) Black rectifies just in time the previous misdirection of his attack. If 21 . . . 
Rx P; 23 RxR, 22 QxR; 23 P— R5, 23 Kt— K2; 24 Q— Q7, with the super- 
ior game. 

(r/) Causing the loss of a Pawn. Q — K sq., was the correct play. 

{e) 27 Q X KP was the simplest way of avoiding erwrs of his own and brilliancies 
of the opponent. If then 27. . .Rx P; 28 R— KB sq., 28 R— B3; 29 Kt— Kt4, 
29 Rr— B4 or — B2; 30 Rx R, followed by R — KB sq., with a winning game. 

(^)Having committed himself to a centre attack, he was bound to abide by it. 
A retreat meant defeat; and, moreover, he oould win the second Pawn with 
perfect safety, e, g., 28 Ktx P, 28 R-K2 (or 28. . .R— B3; 29 Kt— Q7 or even 
Q— Q7, etc.): 29 Kt--Q7, 29 RxQ; 30 KtxQ ,30 R— Ksq. (or 30...R— Q3; 
81 P— B5, etc.); 31 Kt— Q7, 31 PxP; 32 Kt— Kt6, and should win. 

\g) Black^s fine tactics make it very diflScult for the opponent to defend himself, in 
spite of the large material odds which he has acquired. 

I A) Practically an assistance to the adversary, as the RP formed a strong protec- 
tion for White's King. The only good play, however, was- the following, 
though it seemingly cramped up White's pieces: 31 R — KB sq., 31 R — K sq. ; 
32 Q— R2, 32 Rx P; 33 Q— R4, 33 R x R ch. ; 34 R x R, 34;Q— Q3; 35 Kt— B5, 
followed by P — R6, with a winning game. If, however, 31 Kt — Kt 4, 31 R— 
K sq. ; 32 Q— R2, 32 Rx P; 33 Ktx R, 33 Q x Kt, with a strong attack- 

220 

BUBN S GAHE8. 

Position after Black's 33d move. 

R— Kt3 

Black — A. Burn. 

32PxPch. 
33 Q— KB5 

34P— KKt4 0') 
36 Q— Kt 5 
36 Q— B5 
37K— Kt2 
38 Br-R sq. (I) 
39KtxR 
40PxP 
41R— R4 
42 K— Kt 3 
43E^R6 
44 QR— KR sq. 
46K— Kt2 
46 Resigns. 

RxP 
R^Kt3(0 
R— B3 (k) 
R— Kt3 
R^R3 ch. 
R— B3 
RxQ 
PxP 
Q— Kt sq. 
Kl^BS ch. 
Kt— Kt 3 
QxP 
Q— B5 ch. 
Q— P ch. 

Whit«>— C. V. Burille. 

(t) One of those rare situations in which fine mastery can assert itself in au 
original manner. Black with two Pawns behind can afford to exchange Queens 
and yet win the game by force. Of course this is what can be called a stroke 
of good luck, but as a rule such fortunate accidents only happen to great 
masters. See diagram. 

U) If 34 Q X Q ch., 34 R X Q; 35 Kt— B sq. (or 35 P— Kt 4, 85 R x BP; 36 Kt— B5, 
86RxKtP; 37 R— KBsq., 37 RxKt, and wins), 35. . .R— R3ch.; 36 Kt— R3, 
36 R (Bsq.)—B3 (threatening RxKtch., followed by R~R3 mate); 87 P— 
Kt 4, 37 R X P, and wins. 

(A) As will be seen anon on the 36th move, when the same position is forced, R — 
R8 ch. is the winning key move. 

(t) If White remove the Queen, then of course the reply R x P ch. , followed by 
Q — B6 ch., would win in a few moves. 

Game No. 171. 

Played in the second rotind, May 7th. 

DOUBLE 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

8BxP 

A. Bum. 

C. F. Burille. 

QR^Ktsq. 
lORxB 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

IIB— Kt5(6) 

2 KKt-B3 

KKl^BS 

12 P— KR3 

3 QKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

13 Q-Q2 

4B Kt5 

B— Kt5 

14 B— R4 (c) 

50 0 

0 0 

15 KR— QKt sq 

6P— Q3 

P Q3 

16 P— QB4 

7BxKt 

BxKt 

17 B Kt3 

BxP 
QBxB(a) 
B— B sq. 
B— Kt5 
B— K3 
P— KR3 
K— Rsq. 
KR— KKt sq. 
P— Kt4 
Kt— R4 ((f) 

BUBN S GAMES. 

221 

18 P— Q4 
19PxKt 
20 P— Q5 
21P— Kt4 

22 Kt— R2 (/) 

23 Q— K3 

24 KiH-B sq. 
25PxP 

26 Kt-Kta 

27 B^Kt 7 
28Q— B2 
29PxP(i7) 
SOQxRP 
31R(Kt7)— Kt 

32 Q— K3 

33 K— B2 
34K— K2 
35 K— Q3 

KtxB 
P— KB3 
B— Q2 (e) 
B— Ksq. 
B— Kt3 
Q-K2 
P— KR4 
BxRP 
Q-R2 
P— Kt5 
QR— KBsq. 
BxP 
B— Q2 
3Q— R5 

Rr-Kt5 

R B5ch. 
B— Kt 5 ch. 
Q— Kt4 

36R— KRsq. ch. 
37 K— B2 
38K— Kt2 
39KtxP 

40 Kt— Q2 

41 K— B sq. 

42 E^KKt sq. 

43 Q— K4 
44RxR 
45K— Kt2 
46KtxQ 
47Kt— Q2 
48K— Bsq. (i) 
49B^Kt8ch. 
60 R^Kt 7 
SlRxPch. 
52KtxP 

63 P— B6 

K— Kt sq. 
P--KB4(A) 
PxP 
Q— Kt3 
R^B7 
RxP 

R(Kt7)— B7 
R— B8 ch.' 
RxRch. 
QxQ 
R— B6 
R^Q5 
B— K7 
K— B2 
P— K5 
K— K sq. 
RxKt 
Drawn, {j) 

(a) A stop is now put to Black's imitation line of play, for if 9. . .B— Kt sq. ; 10 B 

X B, and wins. 
(fi) Having gained a ^int on the Q side by the first possession of the open QKt 

file for his Book, it was all the more advisable to leave the King side alone 

and to direct his Bishop against the Q side by B — KS. 

(c) Thongh the opponent cannot advance P — KKt 4 at once, the Bishop will be 
ultimately driven back out of play on the K side. 

(d) In consequence of White's Bishop being deplaced on the K .side and quite in- 
active at least for a long time. Black hiui the better game; and his superiority of 
position was more likely to grow if he retained his Knight instead of endeavor- 
ing to exchange the same for the almost useless adverse Bishop. Kt — Q3, was 
the proper play. 

(«) The Bishop was more wanted on the K side and B — B3 would have saved 
time. 

{/)A better plan was Q — K3, with the view of playing Kt — Q2. 

(ff) We do not think that White had anything serious to fear on the K side, and 
he could have proceeded with his attack on the opposite wing with good 
prospects of success, e. g., 29 B x BP, 29 P x P; 30 B(Kt sq.)— Kt 7, 80 Br— B2j 
81P— B5, 81 PxKKtP;8aPxP, 32 B— B6 (if 33...PxP; 33 Qx BP ch., and 
wins); 88 Q x B,88 B x Kt; 34 B— Kt8 ch., 84 B— Kt sq. ; 85 B x B ch., 85 K 
x B; 86 Q— Kt4 ch., and wins. 

(A) The position of both parties is critical, and the play on both sides is very 
interesting. 

(<) Best, if 48 K— B8, 48 B— B4; 49 B— Kt8 ch., 49 K— Ba; 50 Kt— Kt3 (or 50 
B— Kt7, 50 B— Q6 ch.; 51 K— B2, 51 BxQP diach., followed by B— QB4 and 
should win), 50. . .K — K2, and Black's KP ought to decide in favor of his side. 

(J) Black has still the be.st of the game with Book and Bishop against Book, after 
clearing the board of Pawns, which involved a long and tedious process, the 
winning was hardly passible against such a skilful opponent, or at least quite 
uncertain. It was, therefore, the wisest course to give the game up as drawn. 

222 

BtJBN 8 GAMES. 

Game No. 172. 

Played in the second round, May 9tli. 

FOUE KNIGHTS GAME. 

' mate 

A. Burn. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3K<^B3 
4B— Kt5 
SKtxKP 
6P-Q4 
7PxKt 
8Q— Q4 
9PxKt 

10 0—0 

11 B-Q3 (c) 
12P— QB4 
13PxP 

14 Q— KB4 
15B— K3 

16 Q— KB4 

17 QB^K aq. 
18PxP(/) 

19 Q— K4 

20 B— B sq. 
21B— Kt2 
22 B— B4 ch. 
23Q— K2 

24 Q— K5 

25 Q— K2 

26 B— B3 

27 R— Q sq. 
28Q— Q2 
29B— Kt3 

(e) 

Black 

C. F. Burille. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
Kt-B3 
B— B4 (a) 
KtxKt{6) 
B— Kt5 
KtxP 
KtxKt 
B— K2 
0—0 
P-Q4 
B— K3 
QxP 
QBr-Q sq. 
P— KB3 Id) 
P— KR3 
Q-Q2 
BxP 
P-QB4 
B— Esq. 
B— B4 
K— R2 
B^-QKt3 
E^KB3 
R— QKt3 
B— Kt3 
B— Q3 
Q— QR5 
Q— KB5 

30QxQ 

31R^-Q5 

32 B— R4 (h) 

33R^Q4 

34RxP 

35RxB 

36 B— Kt 3 

37 B^QB sq. 0) 

38 P— QR4 

39 K— B sq. 

40 R^K sq. 
41KxR 
42PxP 
43R— B5 
44K— Q2 
45RxP 

46 B— B4 

47 B— Q3 ch. 

48 P— QB4 

49 P— KR4 

50 K— K3 

51 K— Q4 

52 P— KB4 

53 K— K5 

54 B— Kt 6 

55 P— R5 

56 K— Q4 

57 R— K5 (k) 

58 K— K3 

59 K— K2 
60B-K4 

BxQ 
P-B5 (g) 
R— K2(0 
B— K4 
BxB 
R^Kt7 
R— K7 
P— QR4 
B— K sq. 
R^K5 
RxRch. 
P— QKt4 
BxP 

R^Kt8ch. 
B— B8 
BxP 
R-Kt5 
K— Kt sq. 
K— B sq. 
R^Kt7ch. 
R— Kt6 
R^Kt7 
B^KB7 
R— B6 
R— KKt6 
R— QB6 
R— KB6 
RxPch. 
R— B6 ch. 
K— Kt sq. 
Resigns. (?) 

(a) Inferior to the Double Ruy Lopez that can now be formed by B— Kt5 which 

loads to an even game. 
(6).5...BxPch.; 6KxB, OKtxKt; 7 P— Q4, is still more in White's favor. 

especially after 7. . .QKt— Kt5 ch. ; 8 K— Kt sq. 

(c) Not as strong as 11 QB — KB4 which will make it very difficult for Black to 
develop. If 11 . . . P— KB3; 12 P x P. 12 B x P: 1& Q— B4 ch., followed bv B x 
P. Orif 11...P-Q4; 12PxPenpass., 12BxP;13QR— Qsq. 

(d) A weak move that exposes him to a strong attack. 

(c) As matters turn, the other Rook could have been better placed here. 
(/)19Q— K4, 19 P— KB4; 20QxKtP, would have gained important material 
and broken up the advei-se Q side besides forming a strong passed centre Pawn. 

BUBH 8 GAMES. 

223 

ig) A good move that might have much improved his game. 

(/j)If 82BxBP, 82R— QBsq.; 88 R— Q4, 33 B— K4, and wins. 

{() This error costs a valuable Pawn and the game which was considerably in his 
favor. 32 . . . R — K5 was quite safe in the meanwhile, and he threatened the 
formidable R— QR8. If 88 P— KB8, 88 B— KB oh.; 84 K— R sq., 84 R— K2, 
etc. Or if 88 R— Q7, 88 B— K4; 84 P— B8, 84 R— K6, with the superior 
position. 

(J) White holds liis Pawn tight and wins therewith in the end. 

(k) White's end play is remarkably fine, and the finish is beautifuL 

(J) R — KKt6 is the only move to save the immediate loss of a piece, and then 
White plays K — B2, winning at least the exchange in a position which leaves 
no room for Black offering any resistance. 

Uame No. 178. 

Played in the first round, March 30th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
E. Delmar. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3B— Kt5 

4P— Q3 

SBxKtch. (a) 

6P— KR3 

7B— Kt5 

8B— K3 

9 QKt— Q2 
lOKt— QKt3 
llKKir-Q2 
12QE— Kt8q.(6) 
13 KI^QB sq. 

Black 

A. Bum. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
P— Q3 
PxB 
P— KKt 3 
P— KE3 
B— KKt2 
Q— K2 
P— QB4 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— KB sq. 
Kt— K3 (c) 

U K1^K2 

15 P— KB3 

16 0—0 

17 P— QB3 

18 P— QB4 (d) 

19 Kt— QKt 3 

20 QKt— B3 
21PxP(e) 
22Q— Q2 
23 K— E2 
24B— B2 
25E^KB8q.(/) 
26 K— Kt sq. 
27E^B2 

28 K— B sq. 

29 K— K sq. 

P— KB4 
0—0 

QE— Ktsq. 
B— 113 
B— Bsq. 
B— Q2 
P— QB3 
PxP 
K— B2 
P— B5 
R— B4 
B— KKt sq. 
B— KB sq. 
B^R4(9) 
Q— Kt2 
Kt— Q5 

X 

(a) Anderssen favored this continuation for some time, but it is now very rarely 
adopted and generally recognized as inferior to P— QB8 at this point 

(b) Probably with the intention of advancing P — QKt 4 after withdrawing the 
Knight from QKt 3, but anyhow the preparation of such a plan was pre- 
mature. 

(e) Black's manceuvring for jmssession of the centre has been executed in an 
original way, and his position has gradu«Jly greatly improved. 

d) With this his centre becomes weakened. Q — ^B2 or Kt — B sq. were better. 

/(e) This injudicious exchange of Pawns increases Black's advantage. 

(/) White sees the attack coming and pr<)pares making his exit to the other side. 

(g) This move is superfluous, and Q — Kt 2, followed by R — Kt 4, would have saved 
time. 

224 

BDBN 8 GAMES. 

SOEtxEt 

31 Kt— K2 

32 Kl^Kt sq. 
33BxB 
34Q— K2 
35P— QKt4 
36K— Q2 

BPxKt 
E— Kt4 
RxP 
QxR 
B— B4 
B— K2 
Q-E7 

37 P— QR4 

38 B^KB sq. 

39 Q— Q sq. 

40 Kt— K2 

41 K— K sq. 

42 Q— B2 

43 BesigDs. (/<). 

B^KtT 
B— E5 
BxB 
B— K6 ch. 
QxRP 
R— KR7 

(A) White has stubbornly fought a hoiieless battle, but he can hold out ao longer. 
If, for instance, 43 P — Kt 5, then mate could be effected in 6 moves by 48 ... Q 
X R ch. ; 44 K X Q, 44 B— R6 ch. ; 45 K— K sq., 45 R— R8 ch. ; 46 Kt— Kt sq., 48 
R X Kt ch. ; 47 K— K2, 47 B— B8 ch. ; 48 K— K sq.. 48 B x QP disch. mate. 

Game No. 174. 

Played in the second round, April 24th. 

FRENCH DEFENCE. 

JfTiite 

A. Bum. 

IP— K4 
2P— Q4 
3 QKt— B3 
4KtxP 
SKtxKtch. 
eKt— B3 
7B— Q3 
8 0— O 
9Q— K2 

10 Q— K4 

11 P— QB3 

12 R— K sq. (d) 
KBxRP 
14 Q— K2 
ISBxP 
16 Q— Q3 
17RxR 
18B— Q2 
19 QR— K sq. 
20Q— Kt5((?) 
21QxQ 
22RxB 
23 Kt— R4 
24P— KKt3 

(n) Inferior to 3. . .KKt— B3. 

Black 
E. Delmar. 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
PxP(a) 
KKt— B3 
QxKt 
P— KR3 (6) 
B-Q3 
0—0 
K<^B3 
B^Qsq. 
P— K4 (c) 
P— KKt 3(e) 
QB— KB4 
P-K5(/) 
R— Ksq. 
RxB 
Q— KRsq. 
K— Kt2 
Q— R4 
BxR 
PxQ 
P-QR4 
K— B3 
P— R5 

25 K— Kt2 P— R6 

26 P— QKt 4 R— R5 
27B— B4 BxP(/.) 
28P— Q5(t) Kt— K2 
29B— K5ch.(y) K— Kt4 

Position after White's 30th move. 

B— Kt7 
Black — E. Delmar. 

White— A. Bum. 

30 B— Kt 7 (k) Kt— Kt 3(0 

31 R— K5 ch. (m) Resigns. 

burn's games. 225 

(6) Unless he retreat Q — Q sq., this is probably his best, though it is not very 
good. If, however, 6...QKt-B3; 7QB— KKtS, 7Q— Kt8 (or 7...Q— B4; 
8B— Q3, 8Q— R4ch., best [8...Q— Kt5; 9 P— KR8, 9QxKtP; 10 R— R3, 
wins the Qaeen, as occurred between the editor and Mr. Bird]; 9 P — B8, with 
the superior game); 8 B-— Q8, 8 P— B4; 9 P— KIM, with a strong attack. 

(e) A Pawn is here thrown away without improving his position, Kt — K2 instead 
gave prospects of slow extrication if he conducted his game with patience. 

(d) White tempers his attack with due discretion. Any rush like 12 Q — R7 ch., 
12 K — Bsq.; 18 R^K sq., would have deprived him of his advantage, for 
after 18...QB — KKt5, there was not much in Whitens game, and this was 
probably what Black had sx^^^^^^ upon in advancing P — K4 on the 11th 
move. But the play in the text is a fine coup de repos that merely threatens 
to win by compelling Black to play. 

(e) There was hardly anything better, if 12. . .P— KKt 4; 18 P— KIM, with a fine 
attack, and if 12. . .R — K sq., the game might have proceeded 18 Q — R7 ch., 
13K—Bsq.; 14PxP, 14KtxP; 15KtxKt, 15BxKt; 16 B— K8, 16 P— 
QKt 8; 17 B— Q4, with a fine attack. 

(/) He had no time for Px P on account of the threatened QB — KKt 5, and he 

prefers giving up an other Pawn in the hope of gettins up a counter-attack in 

the centre that may compensate for the loss of materiiQ. 
(£f) This forces an exchange and establishes Whitens superiority of Pawns. 
(A) Desperate, but it was otherwise also death, though a slower one. If 27. . .B x 

B; 28 RxB ch., 28 K— Kt2 or K2 (if 28. . .K— K8; 29 P— Kt5, threatening to 

follow it up by P— Q5 ch. and R x R, wins easily) ; 29 R — B5, with a winning 

game, 
(i) A fine double-ed^ed answer, for it not alone breaks all hostile attack on the 

Q side, but also involves a finely conceived and well concealed threat of a 

mate in a few moves against the adverse King. 
iJ) White's play might form the theme of a fair problem. This is the initiation 

of a combination five moves deep, in which the mate is effected in actual play. 
(k) See diagram of position after this capital move. 

(I) He could only save the mate by giving up the Rook and retreating B — Q8. 
(m) Excellent play. He mates now by P — B4 ch. and P — KR8. 

Game No. 175. 

Played in the first round, April lOth. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White Black 3 P— B4 P— Q4 

ri XX T. ^ • AT. 4P— Q3 KPxBP 

G. H. D. Gossip. A. Bum. g p_]|g , ^ Kt-Kt5 

IP— K4 P— K4 6BxP T—q5(b) 

2QKt— B3 KKt— B3 7 Kt— K4 QK<^B3 

(a) This advance subjects him to disadvantage. 5 P x QP was the correct play. 

(6) With excellent judgment Black cuts off communication between the two 
wings for the adversary and isolates Whitens KP. 

226 

BUBN 8 OAHES. 

8 KK<^B3 

9P— B4 
lOKtxP 
11 P— KK3 
12BxKt(c?) 
13 Q— K2 
14QxKt 
15KtxQ 
16 P— Q4 
17PxB 

18 B— B4 ch. 

19 0—0 
20BxBch. 
.21PxP 

22 QEr— Q sq. 
23E^-Q5 
24P— B4 
25K— R2 
26E— Q7 

f^?" 

27R(Bsq.)— Qsq, 

; P en pass. 
B— Kt5 
KKtxP(c) 
KtxB 
0—0 
QxQ 

Er— Esq. 

BxKtch. 

P— KB3 

B— K3 

PxKt 

RxB 

RxP 

E^K2 

QE— K sq. 

P— KR3 (e) 

R— K7 

R (K sq.)— K2 

28 R (Q sq.)— Q2 
29RxR(Q2) 
30K— Kt3 
31 K— B4 
32P— KR4 
33P— Kt4 
34P— R5 

K— B2 

R(K7)xR 
K— K sq. 
R— K6 ch. (/) 
R^K3 
P— KKtS 
K— K2 
P— Kt4ch. 

35 K— B5 

36 K— K5 

37 R^K2 (g) 
38R— Q2 

39 R— Q7 ch. 
40Rn-R7 

41 R^R8 ch. 

42 R— R7 ch. 
43R— Q7 
44E^R7 

45 R-R8 ch. 

46 R— R7 ch. 

47 R-Kt 7 
48R— Kt6(t) 
49 K— B5 
50Rn-Kt7ch. 
51RxP 
52R— R8 

53 R^QB8 
54R— KKtS 
55R^Kt6 
56 K— K6 
57RxRP 
58R— B6 
59 K— B7 
60K— Kt3 
61 Resigns. 

R^B3 ch. 
R^B5 
K— B2 (A) 
RxBP 
K— Ksq. 
R-B3 
K— B2 
K— Bsq. 
K— K sq. 
P— Kt3 
K— Q2 
K— B sq. 
R— Q3 
K— Q2 
P— B4 
^-B3(i) 
P— B5 
K— Q4 
K-Q5 
P— B6 
R^Q4 ch. 
P— B7 
P queens 
Q — B sq. ch. 
R^Q2 ch. 
Q— KKtsq. ch. 

(c) Black energetically utilizes his opportunity of winning a Pawn and reducing 

forces for the end game. 
(^) 12 KtxKt instead, would have made a considerable difference in his favor, 

for after 12...KtxKt; 18 Q— K2, 18 0—0; UQxKt, UQxQ;15BxQ, 1.5 

R— K sq.; 16 P— Q4, 16 P— KB3; 17 B— B4ch., 17 B— K3(orl7...K— Rsq.; 18 

O — O, 18 PxB; 19 B — B7, recovering his Pawn with the superior game, for if 
. 19...R— K2; 20Kt— Q5, and wins); ISBxKBP, ISBxBdisch.; 19 B— K5, 

19 B — Q3; 20 O — 0—0, and though he must lose a Pawn, he will have a better 

game than in actual play. 
(e) The hole here unnecessarily formed makes it diflScult for him subsequently to 

prevent the entrance of the adverse King on this wing. R — B2-was better. 
(/)Loss of time. 80. . .R— Q2, and if 81 R— K2 ch., 81 K— Q sq., followed by 

P — QB3, opened the Q side for his King, and he was bound to win one of the 

adverse Pawns on that wing, which decided the game. 
(g) White fights ingeniously, thoiigh overweighted in material as well as strength 

of the opponent. He saves both Pawns for a time, for whichever Black might 

take, White would discover check by removing the King, and win the Rook. 
(h) Very much superior was 37 K — Q2, as his King had then more liberty to enter 

on the Q side, and the gain of a Pawn was certain anyhow. 
(»■) 48 K — B5 at once might have prolonged the fight, but could do no more if 

Black answered P— QB4, followed by R— QB8 in answer to R x RP 
U) Black's victory is now clearly established. 

bubn's games. 

227 

Game No. 176. 

Played in the Becond round, May 10th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

A. Bum. G. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 
2KK<^B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 

5 P— Q3 (a) 

6 P— QB3 
7QKt— Q2 

8 Kt— B sq. 

9 Kt— K3 (6) 

10 0—0 

11 R— K sq. 
12B— B2 
13B— Kt3 
14Kt— Q5 
15PxB 
16P— Q4 

17B— Kt5 
18PxP 
19KtxKt 
20Q— K2 
21 QR— Q sq. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
K1^B3 
P-Q3 
P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 
Q— K2 
B-Q2 
O— O 
Kt— Q sq. 
B— B3 (c) 
Kt— K3 
BxKt 
K1^QB4 

Kt(B4)— Q2(d) 
KR— K sq. 
KtxKP 
PxKt 
Q— Q3 
Kt— Q2 

22 P— QB4 (e) 

23 B— B sq. 
24P— B3 
25 Q— KB2 
26B— B2 
27 P— QKt 3 
28B— Ktsq. 
29B— Kt2 
30It— Q2 

31 R (Q2)— K2 

32 K— R sq. 
33QxP 

■34P— QR3 
35QxP 

36 PxKt 

37 P— QKt4 

38 B— R2 ch. 
39Q— Q6 
40QxQ 
41P— KR3 
42 R^K4 
43BxP 
44RxR 
45RxB 
46B— Kt3 

P— KB4 
R— KBsq. 
QR^K sq. 
Kt— B4 
P— QR4 
Kt— R3 
P— QKt3 
P-B6 if) 
R— KB2 
R(B2)— K2 
P-B3 (9) 

R— QKtsq. 

KtxP 

PxP 

P-Q5 

K— R sq. 

R-Qsq. 

RxQ 

P— Kt4 

P-Q6 

RxB 

BxR 

P— Q7 

R^Q6 

(a) This line of play is, we believe, the strongest in this opening after Black on 
the 8d move has played P — QR3. 

(b) White conducts the attack in the main on the same plan as was first developed 
by the editor in the first game of his match against Mr. Blackbume in 1876. 
The difference in the defence being that Black in that game had brought out 
his KB— K2. 

(c) It was necessary now to guard by P — QB8 against the entrance of the hostile 
pieces in the centre. 

(<f) If 16 . . . Kt X B; 17 Q X Kt, winning a Pawn. 

(e) White has a little the better game which he has acquired by tactics most 

api>roved of by the modem school. He has two Bishops against Bishop and 

Knight as well as the majority of Pawns on the Q side. 
(/) This advance weakens his centre still more. 
{ff) A blunder that costs at least a couple of Pawns. ' 
(A) Black seems to have been altogether confused by his last oversight, and he 

virtually throws away a piece to boot for an imaginaryattack on the adverse 

Queen. There is no further interest la the game, as White is a clear piece 

i^ead and soon forces an exchange of Queens. 

228 

47 B— Q sq. 
48E^Q5 
49 K— Kt sq. 
50K— B2 
61K— K2 
52RxQP 
63B— B2 
64 E— Q7 ch. 
65R— KR7 
56 R-KKt 7 
67 K— Q2 
68R-Kt6 

bubn's qaxbs. 

ExP 

69BxR 

K— Q5 

R— R7 

60B— B7 

K— K4 

P— R3 

61 K Q3 

K— B3 

K— Kt2 

62B— R5 

K— K4 

R— Kt7 

63K— B4 

K— K3 

RxP 

64K— 04 
66B— Kt4 

K Q3 
K— K2 

R— Kt3 

K— B3 

66K— K6 

K— B sq. 

K— K4 

67 K— B5 

K— Kt2 

E^Kt7 

68B— R5 

K— R2 

E^Kt3 

69 K— B6 

Resigns. 

ExR 

Game No. 177. 

Played in the first round, April 2d. 
PHILIDOR'S DEFENCK 

White 

A. Bum. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3P— Q4 
4Kt— B3 
5B— K2 
6 0—0 
7B— K3 
8 Kt— K sq. 
9P— KB4 

10QPxP(a) 

llPxP 

12 Kt— B3 

13 K— R sq. 

14 B— KKt 6 
15B— R4 
16Q-Q4 

17 QR— K sq. 
18Q— K3 
19 Q— B4 
20PxB 
21 Q— B sq. 
22R— Ktsq. 
23Q— R6 
24BxBP 

Black 

J. M. Hanbaiu. 

P— K4 
B— Q3 
Kt— Q2 
P— QB3 
B— K2 
KKt— B3 
0-0 
K<H-K sq. 
B— B3 
PxP 
BxP 
B— B2 
Q— K2 
P— KB3 
Kt— Kt3 
B— Kt6 
R— Qsq. 
Kl^-Q3 
BxKt 
Kt(Q3)— B5 
Q— Kt6 (6) 
KtxP(c) 
R^2 
KRr-B2 

26R— Kt4(d) 
26 P-QR3 if) 
27PxQ 
28PxKt 

29 K— Kt sq. 

30 R— Kt sq. 

31 K1^K4 

32 R— KKt 2 

33 KxR 

34 R— QR sq. 
35RxRP 

36 R— R sq. 
37B— Q3 
38 Kt— B6 
39B— K4 
40KtxP 
41 K—B2 
42R— R8(9) 

43 P— Kt 6 

44 R— Q8 (A) 

45 K— B sq. 

46 K— K sq. 

47 K— Q sq. 
48R— Q3 
49 Kt— B5 
50K— K2 
51 K— B2 

K1^Q4 (e) 
RxB 
RxQ 
RxRPch. 
PxP 
P— Q5 
R— K2 
RxRch. 
K1^R4 
K<^Kt3 
B— Kt sq. 
P— Kt4 
P— R3 
K—Kt2 
Kir-B5 
Kt— K6 ch. 
KtxP 
B— B5 
P-Q6 
B— K6ch. 
Ki^QS 
P— Q7 ch. 
KtxKtP 
B— B5 
Kt— Q3 
P— R4 
P— Kt6 

BUBN 8 QAXSa. 

229 

62R-Q5 
63B— B2 
54E— Et2 
65BxB 
66 K— B sq. 
67K— Kt^ 
68KxP 
59BxQ 
60K— Kt4 
61K— E3 
62B— Bsq. 

P— R6 
B— K6 ch. (t) 
BxEt 
B^K7 ch. 
B— K8 ch. 
PxPch. 
P qtieeng cL 
BxB 
B— Q5ch. 
K— B3 
Kt— B4 

63B^-QBsq. 
64 Br— Kt aq. ch. 
66&— QBsq. 
66K— Kt2 
67 K— B2 
68B— Etaq. ch. 

69 B— QB sq. 

70 K— Kt sq. 
71B-B2 

72 K— B sq. 0') 

K— Kt4 
Kt— Kt6 
B--Q6 
Kt— B4 
K— Kt5 
Kfr^Kt6 
B— Q7ch. 
K— B6 
Kt— K7 ch. 
B— QSmate. 

(o> This is wrong in more than one way. 10 BP x P, 10 P x P; 11 P— Q5, would 
have secured the majority of Pawns on the Q side. It had also the effect of 
blocking the action of tlie adverse Bishop, and kept a Pawn in front of 
White's isolated KP which after this and White's next move becomes un- 
covered and exposed to adverse attack ob the open file. 

(5) Black's play has been steady and correct, and he now wins a Pawn by force. 

(c) As White's last move could have no effect on the Q wing, it would have been 
better to avoid complications on the K side by K — R sq. 

(d) Overlooking the adversa^'s ingenious reply. 26 B — EtS made his attack 
irresistible, for if 25...K— B sq. (or 25... E— Bsq.; 36 QB— EEt sq., 2« 
BxB;27QxB, and wins); 26 BxP, 26 BxR; 27 B— EEt sq., and wins. 

(«) Very fine indeed. 

(/*) 26 Et X Et was of course out of question on account of the rejoinder Q x B ch. 

Andif 26PxEt, 26QxB;27PxQ, 27PxQ, and wins. 
(ff) White is playing to win against the odds of a Pawn, and he bears the penalty 

of the risk. B^B6, threatening B — Et 6 ch. and B x BP, would have drawn 

easily enough. 
(h) Even now he could draw without difficulty by B x P. 
<i) The quickest winning phtn was 68. . .P— Et6 ch.; 64 E— Et2, 64 B— E7 ch.; 

66 E— B sq. (or 66 t-Et sq., 55 P— B6, and wins. Or if 65 E— B8, 66 P— 

Et 7, and wins), 65. . .B— B7 ch.; 66 E— Et sq., 56 P— B6, and wins. 
{J) This and the foregoing move are dying attempts to save a hopeless game. 

Game No. 178. 

Played in the second round, April 27th. 
STONEWALL OPENING. 

miite 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

A. Bum. 

IP— KB4 
2P Q4 
3 KKt— B3 

P— Q4 
P— K3 
P— QB4 

4P— K3 

QK<r-B3 

5P— B3 

Kt-B3 

6B— Q3 
7 QKt-Q2 
8K<r-K6 

B— Q2 
B K2 

0—0 

9 0-0 

B— QB sq. 

230 

BCBN 8 GAMES. 

10K^B2 

11 Kt— B sq. 

12 R— QB2 (b) 
13P— QKt3 
14B— Kt2 
15P— KE3 
16 P— KKf4 
17R-Kt2 

18 Ki^B3 (e) 

19 P-QB4 (/) 
20PxKBP(A) 

B— Ksq. 
Kt— K5 (a) 
P— B4 (c) 
K— R sq, 
Kt— B3 (d) 
E— KKt sq. 
P— KKt4 
Kt— K6 
PxQP 
FyKBP(g) 
B— B3 

21PxQP(t) 
22B— B4 

23 Q— K2 

24 QB^Q sq. 
25PXPO-) 
26 Kt— K3 
27RxRch. 
28Kt^Kt5 
29Kt— Kt2 
SOQxKt 

31 Resigns. 

QxP 

Q-Q3 

B— Kt3 

QR— Qsq. 

BxP 

BxRP 

RxRch. 

QxKBP 

QxKt 

QxKtch. (t) 

(a) The adverse game ought to suffer long from the hole in the centre formed in 
the early part of the opening, but it is rather a relief for White to have that 
weak square filled by an adverse Pawn that has to remain stationary for some 
time, and Black ought not to have given that opportunity. A better plan was 
Kt — Q2, for if White did not exchange, then might follow P— EB8, and after- 
ward B — KB2 with the view of ultimately breaking the centre by P — K4. 

(6) Nor ought White to have hesitated to exchange, for after 12 B x Kt, 12 P x B; 
18 Kt— Kt 8, 18 <^Q4 (if 18. . .P- KB4; 14 Q— Kt 8, winning a Pawn); 14 Q 
— Kt 8, White had at least an equal game. 

(c) We prefer P — KB8, for after the move in the text the weakness of White's KP 
is quite neutralized by the same defect on the other side. 

(d) We do not see the object of withdrawing this Knight which has to return to 
its present post within a few moves. 

(e) The position is much entangled, but we believe that the complications that 
have been challenged on both sides have turned in W^hite's favor, whose King 
is more safely placed than that of the opponent. He could have obtained the 
advantage by 18 Kt x Kt, 18 B x Kt; 19 P— QB4, with a strong attack. 

(/) Ingenious, and if well continued, it should have given him the best of the 

game, 
(p') Black subjects himself needlessly to a strong attack. 19. . .B — B8 was the 

right play. 
(/») 20 B x Kt, 20 BP X B (if 20 . . . QP X B; 21 Kt x QP is even worse for Black, for 

if now21...B— B8[or81...KtxKt;22QxKtch., and wins]; 22KtxKt, 22 

QxQ; 23BxBch., and wins); 21 KtxQP, 21 B— B8; 22KtxP, 22 Q— K2; 

28 B X B ch., 28 Q X B; 24 Kt x BP, was much better, 
(t*) He had a bad game anyhow, but it could do no good to undouble the adverse 

Pawn and allow Black's Queen to enter in the centre. Perhaps Q— K2 at 

once might have given him a better chance. 
{J) His game was untenable, but after this the opponent is enabled to make short 

work of it 
{k) In the simplest manner remaining two pieces ahead. 

BURN 8 GAMES. 

231 

Game No. 179. 

Played in the first round, April 5th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 

M. Judd. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q3 

5 QKt— B3 

6 B— KKt 5 

7 0—0 
8PxB 

9 Br— Kt sq. 
lOKt— R4 

11 B— QKt 3 

12 Kl^B5 (b) 
13PxB 

14 P— KKt 4(c) 
15P— KB4((?) 
16B— KR4 
17PxP(e) 
18 B— KKt 3 
19P— KB3 
20B— B2 
21B— B5 
22 B— B4 (/) 

Black 

A. Bum. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 
KKt-B3 
P-Q3 

KB— QK<t5(o) 
BxKt 
Kt— K2 
K<^Q2 
QKt— Kt3 
0—0 
BxKt 
Q-Q2 
P— Q4 
P— KB3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
QR— Ksq. 
K— R sq. 
Kt— QB sq. 
R— B2 
P— QKt3 

23B— B2 

24 Q— KB sq. 

25 P— QR4 
26B— Kt3 
27R— B2 
28QR^K8q. 

29 R (B2)— K2 

30 Q— B2 
31K— Kt2 
32R— K3 
33R(K8q.)— K2 
34 Q— K sq. 
35RxR 
36QxR 
37B— B2 

38 Q— K2 
39P— KR4(9) 
40B— Q4 
41B— B2 

42 Q— Ksq. 

43 Q— K2 

44 K— B sq. 

45 K— K sq. 

46 K— Q sq. (h) 
47B— K3 

P— QB3 
Kt— Q3 
Q— B2 
Q— Bsq. 
Q-Qsq. 
R(B2)— K2 
Kt (K4)— B2 
Kt— KKt4 
Kt(Kt4)— B2 
Kt-Kt2 
Kt— B4 
RxR 
RxR 
P— KR3 
Kt— Q3 
Kt(Q3)— Kt2 
Q-Q2 
K— R2 
Q— Qsq. 

JfcL — ii sq. 
K— R2 
Q-Q3 
Q— B5 
Q— Kt6 

(a) Kt — K2 is much to be preferred. 

(b) White, in oar opinion, had the advantage in position which he could still have 
improved by 12 P— KB4 at this juncture, for if 12. . .P— KR8; 18 Bx Kt, 13 
QxB; 14 Q— Ksq., UPxP; 15RxP, and of course if 15...P— KKt4; 16 
Kt — B5, with much the superior game. 

(c) If 14 P— B6, 14 Px P; 15 Bx P, 15 Kt (K2)— Q4; 16 B— R4, 16 P— KB3. 

(d) But now that the Bishop could not eventually be attacked by Kt— Q4, as in 
the last variation, P — B6 was a good move which White could advantage- 
ously follow up by Q — B3. 

(e) B — Kt 3 gained a move, for Black was bound to exchange Pawns sooner or 
later. 

(/) The K file was the one on which to concentrate his heavy pieces, as seen later 
on. 

(y)The opponent has indicated long ago by his movements that he would be 
satisfied with a draw, and White would have done better also to be content 
with the same issue. The move made has an aggressive appearance, but as 
the attack on the K side cannot be sustained, it only loosens his own Pawns 
on that wing. 

(h) The march of the King to the other side is altogether injudicious and only 

232 bubn's games. 

48P— KE5 K<^Q3 67Q— Kt6ch. K— Kt sq. 

49 B— B2 Q— B6 68 Q— K 8 ch. Q— B gq. (o) 

50 B X Kt (t ) PxB 69 Q— K6 ch. Q— B2 
51K— Bsq. P— B5 0') 70Q— B8ch. K— E2 
52B— B2(A) PxP 71KxKt QxBP 
63PxP Kt-B2 72Q— Q7 Q— Q8 ch. 
64P— B4 Kt— K4 73K— Kt4 Q— Q5 ch. 
55 PxP KtxPch. 74K— Kt3 Q— B5 ch. 
66K— Ktsq. Kt— B5 75 K— B3 Q— B4 ch. 
57Q— Qsq. Q— QB6 (Z) 76 K— B4 P— E3 . 
58Q— B2 Q— K8ch. 77Q— Kt7 Q— B5 ch. 
59K— Kt2(m) PxP 78 K— E3 P— Q5 
60K— B3 Q— Kt6ch. 79 Q— K4 Q— B4 ch. 
61B— Kt3 QxP 80K— Kt3 Q— Kt4ch. 

62 P— K5 Q— Kt 8 {n) 81 K— B2 Q— B5 ch. 

63 Q— B3 Kt— K7 82 K— Kt sq. Q— Kt 5 ch. 
64Q— Q2 Q— B4ch. 83 K— Kt 2 QxPch. 
65 K— Kt 2 Kt— Q5 84 Eesigns. 

66Q— Kt2 KtxB 

affords the opponent opportanities. The King was better placed on the K 
side, as his weakened Pawns on that wing required additional support event- 
ually. 

(i) After this exchange his position becomes weaker still, P — QR5 was anyhow 
better. 

iJ) Not as good by any means as 51 . . .Et — B2 at once, for if 52 P— Q4 (the move 
which Black evidently intended to prevent by the play in the text), 52. . .P — 
B5; 58 Q— E8, 58 Kt— R sq., with a winning attack. 

(k) 52 P X P, 52 Q X BP; 58 P x P, followed soon by Q— Q3, was far better in play- 
ing for a draw, and no more could be expected by rights. 

(0 Excellent play. He threatens Kt— Q6, followed by Q— K8 ch., if White 
guard the mate by Q — B2. 

(m) If 59 Q— B sq., 59 Q— K5 ch. ; 60 Q— B2, 60 P x P, and should win. 

(«) Better than 62.. .QxRP; 68 Q— B7, winning the QRP, after which White's 
QRP will become troublesome. 

(o) After this Black has only to be careful not to allow the adversary a perpetual 
check which of course he guards against and then wins without difficulty. 

Game No. 180. 

Played in the second ronnd, May 4th. 

DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. 

White Black 

A. Bum. M. Judd. 

1 P— K4 P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 KKt— B3 

3Kt— B3 

K1H-B3 

4B— Kt5 

B— Kt5 

5 0-0 

0—0 

6P— Q3 

P Q3 
PxB 

7BxKt 

BTTBN S GAICES. 

233 

8Kt-K2 
9Kt— Kt3 

10 P— KB3 

llPxKt 

12Kt— R4 

13Q— K2 

14 B— K3 

15 B— Q2 
16P— Kt3 
17R— B2 
18P— R4 
19QxB 

20 QR— KB sq. 
21P— KKt4 
22Q— R5 

23 Kir-B3 

24 K— E2 (d) 

25 K— R sq. (e) 

26 Q— Q2 

27 Kt— Kt sq. 

28 Q— K2 
29Q— B3 
30K1^K2 

B— Kt5 
Kt— R4 
KtxKt 
B— Q2 
P-Q4 
B— Q3 
P— Q5 (a) 
E— Kt sq. 
Q-K2 
B— QKt5(6) 
BxB 
Q— B4 
P— B3 
Q— K2 
B— K3 
P— KP»3(c) 
Q— Q3 
P-QB4 
P— R3 
Q— B3 
Q— Q2 
Q— B2 
Q— Kt3 

31Kt— Kt3 

32 Q— K2 

33 Q-Q2 
34E^B3 
35Kt^R5 

36 Q— B2 

37 Kt— Kt 3 

38 Kt— K2 
39Q— R4 
40Kt— Kt3 
41 K1^-B5 
42KtrxB 
43Er— Kt3 
44Br— Kt6 
45B— B3 
46R(B3)— Kt3 
47R(Kt3)— Kt4 
48Q— Kt3 
49E^R4 

50 Q— K sq. 
51Q-Q2 
5211— R5 
53 Q— B2 

K— R2 
Q-B2 
Q— K2 
K— Kt sq. 
B-Q2 
B— K sq. 
B— Q2 
B^B2 
KR— Bsq. 
R— Kt3 
BxKt 
R-B2 
K— Rsq. 
R— Ktsq. 
R— Qsq. 
Rr-QKt sq. 
R— Qsq. 
R— QKt sq. 
R— Qsq. 
R^QKt sq. 
R^Qsq. 
R— Q3 
R— Qsq. 

(a) In the nature of this dreary opening both parties manoeuvre for a long time in 
a manner that in no way disturbs the equilibrium, and it is often difficult to 
judge what influence any single move will exercise on the future of the game. 
The text move, however, is a flagrant strategical error that practically deals 
a dead blow to Black's game, at least as far as his winning chances were con- 
cerned. Owing to his QKtP being doubled, he had no chance of breaking 
through on the Q wing, nor could he hope of opening the game on the KB file 
of which his opponent had evidently too strong a command. His only 
prospect of makmg an attacking impression for the purpose of counteracting 
any nostUe attack on the K side rested, therefore, on his opening the Q centre 
at some time or other. By closing the Q file now, he allows the adversary 
subsequently to heap up all his pieces for an attack on the K side without 
his being able to offer opposition at any point. 

(6) The exchange of BLshops which he now aims at was not advisable, for in the 
ending the Knight is usually stron^r than the Bishop when on the latter's 
side a Pawn is doubled. Besides, this Bishop was necessary for the defence of 
the majority of his Pawns, for five of them were already posted on black 
squares, and it could be easily foreseen that he would have also to move 
P— QB3. 

(c) The advance of this Pawn leaves two strong marks for the hostile attack on 
(he K side. If at all necessary, it should have been delayed until he had 
advanced P — KKt4 which practically closed all avenues of attack on the 
K side for the enemy, at least for a long time. 

(d) The loss of the Queen wonld have been the penalty for 24 Q x RP, for after 24... 
B — R sq. ; 25 Q — Kt 7, 25 Q — Q3, the Queen had evidently no escape. 

(e) The game takes a tedious turn from this point up to White's 74th move. 
Black could do nothing better than to wait either for an adverse blunder or 
else for the final death-blows to his game as soon as the opponent discovered 
the right line of attack which White ultimately hits at after various other 
experiments. 

234 

BtJBN's 0AME8. 

54Q— B4 

55 K— Kt gq. 

56 Q— Kt4 

57 K— B2 
58Q— R4 
59 K— K2 
60Q— Kt4 
61Q— KtS 
62 K— Q2 
63Q— R4 
64Q— Kt4 
66R— R4 
66Q— R5 

67 K— K sq. 

68 K— B sq, 

69 K— Kt gq. 

70 K— K2 
71R(R4)— Kf4 
72E— Kt3 
73I^-B3 

74 P— KR4 (/) 

75 R-B gq. 

Er— QKt sq. 
R— Kt3 
B^Kt gq. 
R-M^sq. 
R— QKt sq. 
E— Kt3 
R— Kt sq. 
R— Qsq. 
R— QKt sq. 
R— Kt3 
R— Kt sq. 
R^Qsq. 
R— QKt sq. 
R— Qsq. 
R— QKt sq. 
R^-Qsq. 
Rn-QKt gq. 
R— Qsq. 
R— QKt sq. 
R— Qsq. 
R-QKt sq. 
R— Qsq. 

76 R— KKt sq. 

77 K— R sq. 

78 P— KKt 4 
79R^Kt2 
80 P— KtS 
81RxR 
82PxP 
83QxQ 
84PxP 

85 R^Kt 6 

86 K— R2 
87RxPch. 
88R— Kt6ch. 
89K— Kt3 
90K— Kt4 
91K— Kt5 

92 R^Kt 7 ch. 

93 K— B6 
94R-Kt6 

95 K— K6 

96 P— B6 

R^QKt sq. 
R— Qsq. 
R-Q3 
R— Bsq. 
PxP 
PxR 
Q— KB2 
RxQ 
PxP 
R-Q2 
P— QR4 
K— Kt2 
K— B2 
R— Qsq. 
K— K2 
R— KR sq. 
K— K sq. 
Er-R3 ch. 
R-R7 
K— B sq. 
Resigns. 

(/) White has at last found the weak spot in the enemy's army, and Black's 

resistance soon breaks down. ° 
(ff) If 96. . .R— KB7; »7 R— R6, »7 K— Kt sq.; 98 P— B7 ch., 98 Rx P; 99 R-R8 

ch., 99 K— Kt2; 100 R— R7 ch., and wins. 

Game No. 181. 

Played in the first round, April 13th. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

11 Kt— B sq. 

BxKt(d) 
Ktr-KR4 
P— KB4 

A. Bum, 

S. Lipschtttz. 

12PxB 
13 K— Kt2 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

14Kt— Kt3 

PxP 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

15RxP 

Kt— B6 ch. 

3B Kt5 

P-Q3 

16BxKt 

PxB 

4P Q4 

B^Q2(a) 

17Kt— K2(e) 

B— Kt4 

5 KB— QB4(6) 

B— K2 

18 R-KKt sq. 

Q— B4 

6 0—0 

Kt— B3 

19 B K6 

Q B3 

7 R— K sq. 

0-0 

20 K— R sq. 

B R3 

8P— B3 

B Kt5 . 

21 R— Kt4 

QR-^sq.(/) 

9Q— Q3 

Q-B sq. (c) 

22Q— Kt5 

QR — ^Kt sq, 
K1^K2 

10 QKt-Q2 

K— Rsq. 

23QXKR6 

BITBNS 

OAMES. 

24 P Q5 Ki^Kt3 

33BxB 

QxB 
KxB 

26 Kfc-Q4 K<r-K4 

34BxQ 

26Er-Kt2 P— B3 

35Q— KtSch. 

K— B sq. 

27 E— K sq. P— QR3 

28 R (K sq.)— KKt sq. 

36 Q B6ch. 

K— K sq. 

37Q— B8ch. 

K-K2 

P— B4 

38QxPch. 
39 Q— B6 ch. 

K-B3 

29 Kt— B5 KB— Q sq. 

K— K2 

30P Kt3 P QKt4 

40Q— Kt7ch. 

K— K sq. 
B-(J2(^ 

31 P— KB4(o) P— QB4(A) 
32KtxKKtP BxKt 

41P— B6 

42 Q— K8 ch. 

Besigns. 

235 

(a) Black's last move and this are recommended in the *' Modem Chess 

Instructor '' as the best defence in the Ruy Lopez. 
(6) A position that might arise in Philidor's Defence is now formed, with the 

difference, however, that Black is a move ahead, namely, the development of 

B— Q2. 

(c) Black has obtained an early superiority of position and could have made it 
manifestnowby 9...BxKt; lOPxB, lOPxP; 11 PxP, 11 P— Q4;12PxP, 
12 Kt X P; 18 Kt— B3 for 12 B x Kt, 12 Q x B; 13 KI^BS, 18 Q— KlU, with the 
superior game), 12. . .QKt — Kt 5, with a strong attack. 

(d) This exchange comes too late, for he cannot now open the Q file as in the 
above position. In fact, at the present juncture, it only strengthens the 
adverse centre and opens an attack against himself on the KKt file. 

(c) White has already transferred the attack to his side, but B — K6 first, 

- would have still more strengthened his position* 
(/) White's answer shows the weakness of this move. Kt — K2 or — Q sq. were, 

no doubt, better. 
(g) A fine prelude to the final attack that has been strategically prepared with 

great judgment and circumspection. His object is to prevent Black on the 

89th move from interposing kt— Kt 3 on pain of his losing a piece by P — R5. 
(h) Black is so encircled in all directions that he cannot avoid disaster. If 81 . . . 

R— Kt2; 82 KtxB, 32 QxKt; 33 QxQ, and of course if Black retake, he is 

mated in two moves. 
(t) A clear Book is now lost, but the issue was decided in White's favor under 

any circumstances. 

Game No, 182. 
Played in the second round. May 14th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White Black 

S. lipschUtz. A. Bum. 

IP— K4 P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 QKt— B3 

3B— Kt6 

Kt— B3 

40 0 

KtxP 

6P— Q4 

P— QB3 
P— QKt4 

6B— B4 

7B— Kt3 

P— Q4 

236 

BUBN 8 OAHES. 

8PxP 
9 P— QB3 

lOB— B2 

11 Kt— Q4 

l2QxB 

13 P— KB4 (c) 

14 Ki^Q2 

16 QKt— B3 
16KtxKt 

17 B— Q2 (d) 

18 P— QR4 
l9PxP 
20 B— K3 
21B— B5 
22ExR 
23BxKt 

24 Kt— Q4 

25 Q-K2 (gr) 
26Q— Kt4 
27KtxKP 
28 Q— B6 
29QxQ 

30 R— Q sq. 
31RxP 
32PxP 
33KtxP 

34 Br-Q7 (h) 

35 K1^K2 

36 Br— Q2 (t) 

37KtxQ 
38B-K2 
39P— Kt3 
40K— Kt2 
41 E^B2 ch. 
42R— R2 
43R— KB2 
44E^R2 
45 R— Kt 2 
46R— R2 
47 E^QB2 

Kt— K2 (a) 

Kt— B4 

B— B4 (h) 

BxB 

Q— Q2 

P— KKt3 

K1^K3 

B— Kt2 

PxKt 

P-QB4 

0—0 

PxP 

P— B5 

BxR 

R— QB sq. (e) 

QxB 

P-KKt4 (/) 

PxP 

K— R sq. 

BxP 

Q-B3 

BxQ 

P— Kt5 

PxP 

BxP 

B— Kt7 

P— B6 

P— B7 

P — B8 qneen- 

BxKt 
K— Kt2 
K— B3 
K— B4 
K— K5 
R— B2 
B— K6 
R— B8 
B— Q5 
R^K8 
R— QR8 

48 R— K2 ch. 
49R— K7 
60 K— R sq. 
51R— Q7 

52 R— K7 ch. 

53 R— K sq. (k) 
54R— K7 

55 R— K sq. 

56 R^-QKt sq. 
57R— Kt5 
58R^-QB5 
59 R— B6 ch. 
60Rn-B4 
61R-K4 
62R^KR4 
63R— K4 
64R^B4 
65R^K4 

66 R— QR4 

67 R— QKt 4 
68R^KR4 
69R— KKt4 
70R^R4 
71K— Kt2 
72R— B4 

73 R— B3 ch. 

74 R— B sq. 

75 K— R sq. 

76 R^R sq. 
77R^R6 

78 R^K6 ch. 
79RxR 
80K— Kt2 

81 P— Kt4 

82 P— Kt 5 
83K— R3 
84P— Kt6 
85K— Kt4 

K— Q6 
R^R7 ch. 
P— R3 
K— K4 
K— B4 
R-KB7 
B— B3 
K— Kt3 
R^Q7 
R— K7 
B— K4 
K— Kt4 
R-Q7 
K— B4 
K— Kt4 
B— Q5 
B— K6 
R^K7 
K— B4 
K— K4 
K-Q4 
B-Q5 
R— K3 
K— B5 
K— Q6 
K-Q7 
R-K7 ch. 
B— B7 
K— K6 
P— R4 
K— B6 
KxR 
B— Q5 
P— R5 
K— K6 
B— K4 
B— B3 
K— K5 

And the game was given np as 
drawn. 

(a) Anderssen's favorite move and, we Ijelieve, Black's best play at this junctnre, 
for it makes the QliP available for attack at QB4 or defence at B3. The 
Knight that stood undefended at B8 with little scope of action, can be made 
better use of on the K side, from the post where it is now placed and might 
even, in some contingencies, be played to QB sq. after removing the QB. 
The temporary blocking up of the KB is of no consequence. 

(6) We prefer 10. . .Kt— K.S, with the probable continuation : 11 Kt— Q4, 11 P— 
QB4; 12 KtxKt, 12 BxKt; 13 P— KB4, 13 P— KKt3, etc., with the diflFerence 
in Black's favor that he retains the QB which is of the same color as that on 

BURN 8 GAMES. 

237 

which the majority of his own Pawns are placed, and this is of great import- 
ance for the attack as well as the defence. 

(c) Here, and for some moves later, White could have obtained the superiority on 
the Q side by P — QEt 4, forming a hole at Black's QB4, and also preparing to 
force an opening of the QR file by P — QR4. 

((i) Feeble. P — QKt 4 was still in time and much superior. 

(e) Best, as White threatened R— R7 in reply to which he would now interpose 
B— B2. 

(^) A very fine move that upsets the adverse apparently formidable attack. 

iff) White was in a situation of difficulty. If 25 R— R6, 25 PxP; 26 RxP, 26 
Q— KB2; 27 Q— Bo, 27 R— R sq., with a good game. And if 25 P— KKtS, 25 
PxP; 26 PxP, 26R— KBsq., and White must abandon all attack in the 
centre by withdrawing Kt— K2, for if 27 R— KB sq., 27 RxP; 28 RxR, 28 
Q - Kt 4 ch. Or if 27 Q--Q2, 27 B— R3, etc. 

(7i) 34 Rr-Kt5 was better, for if 84. . .P— B6; 85 Kt— QS, etc. Or if 84. . .B— Q5 
ch.; 35 K— B sq., 35 R— KB sq.; 86 P— Kt3, 86 P— B6; 37 K— K2, etc. 

(0 In order to prevent Black from playing R— K sq. If 36 K— B2, 86 R— KB sq. 
ch. ; 37 K— Kt 8 (if 37 K— K sq., 37 B— B6 ch., and wins. Or if 87 K— K3, 87 
R— K sq. ch. , followed by R x Kt, and wins), 87 . . . B— K4 ch. ; 38 K moves, 88 
R — B7, and wins. 

(J) As both White's pieces could not well move from their present post, Black 
might have entered at once with his King on the march toward the centre 
which would have made it more difficult for the opponent to defend. The 

fame is now drawn, especially on the ground that the only Pawn that Black 
as left is a RP, which has finally to reach a white square, and therefore one 
of a color opposite of that to his Bishop. Theoretically, Black cannot win 
under the circumstances, even if he should win both the white Pawns and 
exchange Rooks. 
(k) White here claimed a count of fifty moves. 

Game No. 188. 

Played in the second round, May 18th. 

BISHOP'S GAMBIT. 

White 

BUwk 

S. lipschtttz. 

A. Bum. 

IP— K4 
2P— KB4 
3B— B4 
4BxP 
5 K— B sq. 

P— K4 
PxP 

Q E5ch. 
P— KKt4 

6 KKt-B3 
7P— KR4 
8Kt— B3 
9P-Q4 

10 KB— B4 (b) 

11 B— K2 

12 P— Q5 

13 B— Q2 

Q— R5 

B— Kt 2 (a) 
P— KR3 
Ki^K2 
B— Kt5(c) 
QKt— B3 
0—0—0 
K<^K4 

(a) Best, if 7...P— KR8; SBxPch., 8QxB (or 8...KxB; 9Kt— K5ch., and 
wins); » Kt— K5, 0 Q— B8; 10 Q— US ch., 10 K— K2; 11 Kt— Kt 6 ch., 11 K— Q 
sq. ; 12 Kt X B, 12 Q x Kt; 18 P x P, with an excellent attack. 

(6) Q — Q3 is much preferable here. 

(c) Not as strong as QKt— B3, threatening P— Kt 5. 

238 

BXJBN S OAKES. 

14QKt— Kt5 
15PxB 
16 P— QB4 
17Kt— Q4(e) 
ISKtxPch. 
19BxKt 
20B— K2 
21 B— B3 
22PxKP 
23BxKtch. 
24B— B3 
26 KB— Kt sq. 
26P— B6 
27R— Kt2 
28 R— B sq. 

BxKt(d) 

K— Kt sq. 

P— QB3 

KtxQBP 

KtxKt(/) 

Kl^K4 

P— KB4 

PxKP 

Q-Kt3(gr) 

BxB 

KR— KKt sq. 

Q— QKt3 

R— QB sq. (h) 

R— B6 

RxR 

29QxR 
30 R— QB2 
31QxR 
32 P— Kt 3 
33Q— K2 
34BxQ(t) 
35K— Kt2 
36 B— Kt4 ch. 
37K— B3 • 

38 K— K2 

39 K— B3 

40 B— B8 
41P— R4 

R— QBsq. 
RxR 
P— QR3 
Q— K6 
QxQch. 
K— B2 
K-Q2 
K— Q sq. 
P— R4 
B— B6 
K— K2 
P— Kt3 
B— B3 

Drawn game. 

(d) K — Et sq. at once was better, we believe. 

(«) He offers to give np a Pawn which he afterwards recovers, but time and 

trouble is wasted that might have been used for consolidating his position. 

Kt — B8 was better play. 
(/)Best. If 18...PxKt; 19BxKt, 19PxP; aOPxP, 20KtxP; 21Q— KtS 

ch., and wins a piece at least, for if 21. . .Et — Et8; 22 BxP, winning the 

Queen. 
iff) Black's attack has been ingeniously conducted, but is not consistently pursued 

here. 22. . .P— B6; 88 BxKt ch., &3 BxB; 24 BxP, 24 QE— KB sq. ; 25 E— 

Et 2, 26 P— Kt 5 was more promising, for if 26 B x P, 26 Elt— Kt sq. ; 27 K— 

B8, 27 BxB; 28 QxB, 28 B— B6 ch., and wins. 
(A)QxP instead would have won two Pawns, and he had then two ^lassed 

Pawns on each of the two wings, which would have ajssured victory m the 

ending, though the Bishops were of- opposite colors, 
(i) White has wrigg^led out of his difScnlties after a patient and clever defence, 

and the game dnfts into an easy draw. 

Game No. 184. 

Played in the first round, March 28th. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

6P Q3 
7Kt— K2 
8P— B3 

P— KR3(c) 

A. Bum. 

N. MacLeod. 

B-^2 
P— R3 (d) 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

9B R4 . 

Q— K2 

2 KKt— B3 

QK1H-B3 
K1^B3 

lOKl^KtS 

0—0-0 

3B KtS 

IIP— Kt4 

B— Kt3(c) 

4 0-0 

B B4(o) 

12P— Kt5 

Kt— QKt sq. 
KtxP 

5 Kt— B3 (6) 

P-Q3 

13PxP 

burn's qames. 239 

14BxBch. KtxB 26QxPch. QxQ 

15 P— Q4 P— Kt 3 27 Kt (B4)— Q6 ch. 

16 P— QB4 QR— B sq. K— Q sq. 
17P_R5 B— R2 28RxQ '^ '^ 

18 B— Kt sq. Kt (Q2)— Kt sq. 29 KR-Kt sq. 

19 Q— Kt 3 P— QB3 30 B— B sq. (a) 

20 B— R3 (/) P— QB4 31 B— Kt 6 ch. 
21PxKP PxP . 32RxKtch.(A) 
22KtxP • Q— B2 33RxKt 

23 Kt-.B4 P— R4 34 B—M 

24 P— K5 P— R5 35 R— Q sq. 

25 Klr~K4 P— R6 36 R— B7 

(a) Irregular and incorrect Et x P is the best move here. 

(6) White could have obtained the better game immediately by Kt x P. 

(e) Useless for the defence, and at least premature for the attack. 

(d) This advance drives the adverse Bishop to a better post, to which White any- 
how intended to retreat. The move is also specially objectionable under the 
circumstances that he intends O — O — O. 

(e) B — R2 might have saved some valuable time on the 17th move. 

(/) White pursues Ids attack with admirable correctness. He could win a Pawn 
at once by PxP, followed by Kt x P, but he justly prefers the move in the 
text as a preliminary which establishes connection between the two Rooks 
and also compels the adversary to block his pieces still more, for he threatens 
now B X QP, and Black^s answer is forced. 

ig) Powerful and accurate. 

(h) Winning two pieces, for obviously if K x Kt, White mates by R — Kt 7. 

Game No. 185. 

Played in the second round, April 22d. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

g-Q4 

Kt— K2 

PxKt(a) 
Kt— Kt3 
B— Q2 
B— Q3 
Q— KR4 

(a) Not as good as 7...KtxKt, with the following probable continuation: 
8 O— O, 8 B— Q2; 9 B^-K sq., 0 O— O— O; 10 R x P, 10 P— QR3; 11 B x P, 11 
Kt — Kt 5, and should win. 

(6) B — B4 was no doubt much better. 

(c) 8 P— Q8, 8 P— KB4; 9 P x P, 9 P x P; 10 B— B8, were far superior. 

White 

Black 

5KtxP 

N. MacLeod. 

A. Bum. 

6Q E4 

7KtxKt 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

8 B— K2 (b) 

2P— QB3 
3Kt--B3 

P Q4 

9 0—0 

QKt— B3 
PxP 

10 Br—K sq. 

4B— Kt5 

UB— B4(c) 

240 

BUBN 8 OAUES. 

12ExPch. 
13 P— KR3 
UQxBP(e) 
15QxR 
16 B— B sq. 
17Q— Kt8 
18B^K6(/) 
19RxBch. 
20QxRP 
21 Q— Q4 ch. 
22QxKtPch. 
23 Q— B6 ch. 
24P— QB4 

K— Q sq. 
BxRP(d) 
B— B sq. 
Q— Q8 ch. 
QxB 
P— KB4 
K— Q2 
KxR(gr) 
R— Ksq. 
K— K2 
K— Qsq. 
R^K2 
K— K sq. 

25Q-B3 
26P— B5(A) 
27P— Q3 

28 Kt— Q2 

29 Q— Q4 

30 P— B6 

31 Kt— B3 

32 Q— R7 

33 K^-Q4 
34QxQ 
35KtxP 
36P— KKt3 
37 Resigns. 

Q— Q8 

R^K8 

QxR 

QxRP 

Q— K3 

R^B8 

QxBP 

Q--Kt2 

BxQ 

B— R3 

RxBch.(y) 

{d) This is hazardous plf^, and all the more unjustifiable as Kt — B5 was evidently 

much stronger, for White could not take the two pieces on account of the 

ultimate Q-^8 ch. 
(«) Failing to perceive the right answer which was 14 B — K2, for if 15. . .Q — R8; 

16 P X B, 16 Q X RP; 17 B— Kt 4, 17 Q— RS; 18 Q x BP, and should win. 
(/) There was no necessity for this and the subsequent sacrifice of the exchange, 

and he could have safely retreated B — K3. 
(g) Finely played and givingBlack a much better prospect of escaping from a 

series of checks than P x B. 
(A) This error loses at once. He could hold out for some time at least by 36 Q — 

Kt 8, 26 Q— KB; 27 P— B5, and if 27. . .Kt— B.5; 28 P— B6. 
(t) Well played and decisive. It prevents the (jueen from protecting the Bishop 

atB4. 
(J) An excellent finishing stroke which wins another piece. 

Game No. 186. 

Played in the first round, April 4th. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

White 

A. Bum. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt6 
4 0—0 
5P— Q4 
6P— Q5 

7 QKt— B3 

8 KKt— Q2 
OKKtxP 

Blade 

D. M. Martinez. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt— Q3 
P— K5 (a) 
Kt— K4 
KtxB 

lOKtxKt 
11 P— KB4 
12Kt— Q4 
13 Kt— KKt 3 
14Q— Q3 

15 B— K3 

16 QR^K sq. 

17 P— QB4 
18R— K2 

19 KR— K sq. 

20 Kt— QB2 

21 P— QKt 4 

P-Q3 
Kt-Kt3(6) 
P— KB4 (c) 
0—0 
Kt— R6 
Q— Ksq. 
Q— B2 
B— B3 
B— Q2 
QR— Ksq. 
P-QB4 (</) 
P— QKt3 

22 P— Kt5 

23 P— QB4 

24 P— QR5 

25 Q— QR3 

26 QxRP 

27 R— Q sq. 
28R— Q3 
29R— KB2 

30 Q— Kt 3 

31 Br— KB sq. 
32R— B2 

33 Q— Kt sq. 
34Q— Kt3 
35 B— B sq. 
36B— Kt2 
37 B—Q sq. 
38R— QRsq. 

39 Q— Q3 

40 Kt— KB sq. 
41Kt(QB2)— K3 
42 Kt— QB2 
43Kt— Kt3 

44 Q— KB sq. 
45Q— Q3 
46 Kl^KB 8< 
47Kt(B2)- 
48P— Kt3 
49 Kt— QB2 

Bsq. 
I)— K3 

BUBNS 

OAMIW. 

E— K2 

60 Kt^-Q2 (g) 

Kt-B3 

KE^K sq. 

51 K*r-QKt3 

Q E4 

PxP(c) 

52 Q B3 
53KtxEP 

Q— B2 

B R6 

BxKt 

^ QB6 

64RxB 

Kt-B8 

P-QR4 (/) 

55 P— KE3 (h) 

Ki^K5 

B-QKt5 

66E— Kt2 

B— B sq. 

Q— B3 

57 E— R sq. 

P— KKt4 

K— B sq. 

68P-E4 

P— Kt5 

Q— Kt3 

59 Q-QE3 

B— Kt2 

Q B3 

60Q— Q3 
61 K— E2 

K— E2 

K— Kt sq. 

B— Esq. 

P— KR3 

62 K(^K3 

Q E4 

Q— 62 

63 E— K sq. 

B Kt2 

K— R2 

64E(Kt2)— K2 

B— Bsq. 

B— B sq. 

65K— Kt2 

Q Kt3 

B— Kt2 

66 Kl^B sq. 

B— Kt2 

B— B sq. 

67 B— E sq. 

Q— B2 

Q m 

68E^K3 

R— QRsq. 

K— Kt sq. 

69 Q— B2 

BxP(t) 

Q Kt5 

70PxB 

QxP 

Q— Kt3 

71 K-Kt sq. 

E^E7 

Q-B2 

72 Q-Kt 3 

73 B Kt2 

Q— QE sq. 

B-Q2 

P — Q4 

Q R4 

74 E (K3)— K2 

R-R5 

Q B2 
Kt— Kt3 

75Q— Q3 

R-Q2 

76 Kt— Q2 

P— B5 

Kt— B sq. 

77 Q— K3 

E^Kt5 

^1 

(a) The correct move in this variation for the purpose of obtaining an early 
equalization. 

(b) Kt — Kt 5, with the view of returning to KB3, was better. 

(c) His centre and Q side become now blocked, and rather than subject himself to 
such a confined position, he ought to have played 12. . .0 — O, whereupon if 13 
P— B5, 13 Ktr-K4; 14 P— B6, 14 Px P; 15 B— R6, 15 R— K sq., with a defens- 
ible game. 

{d) If 20. . .Bx P; 21 Q— Kt3, with the superior game. 

(e) A dangerous opening for the adverse heavy pieces is made by this move. B — 

QB sq. was better. 
(/) Under the circumstances that he had exchanged Pawns on the 24th move, his 

last three moves were ingeniously conceived for the purpose of covering his 

Q side, 
(^r) After a great deal of useless manoeuvring on both sides, White spots the 

hostile weak point and proceeds to win the advanced QRP. 

(h) In allowing the adverse Knight entrance in the centre he makes his vic^toiy 
doubtful, whereas, after Bx Kt, he had a comparatively easy task to keep his 
King safe and to advance his winning QKtP m due time 

(i) Black ought to have been more than satisfied with a draw, considering that he 
was a Pawn behind, nor was there any more particular danger to his game 
than there had been all along since he lost the Pawn, and the sacrifice was, 
therefore, unjustifiable. 

242 

BUBN 8 OAMES. 

78KtxKt 
79R-R8q.O-) 
80Q— B5 
SlQxKBPch. 
82 Q— K5 cL 

QPxKt 

K— Kt2 
Q— B3 

U) Q— B8 at once was stronger still. 

83QxQch. 
84BxB 
86R— QB2 
86P— Kt6 
87P— Kt7 

KxQ 
P— B6 
R— Q6 
K— K2 
Resigns. 

Game No. 187. 

Played in the second round, May 3d. 

BUY 

LOPEZ. 

tyhite 

Black 

16 Q— K2 

B— B4 

D. M. Martinez. A. Bum. 

17 K<^B3 

18 P— QKt 3 

Q K3 
R— KKt5(c) 

1P-K4 

P— K4 

19 Kt— K4 

B— K2 

2 KKt-B3 

QKt— B3 

20Kt— Q4 

Q Kt3 

3B— Kt5 

Kt-B3 

21 P— KB3 

R-R5 

4 0—0 

KtxP 

22 K— R sq. 

P-KB4 

5P Q4 

B— K2 

23 Kt-B2 

K— R sq. 

6Q— K2 

7BxKt 

Kt— Q3 
KtPxB 

24 Q-K sq. 

25 P— KR3 

Q Kt6 
B— R3 

8PxP 

Kt— Kt2 

26 P— QB4 

B— QB4 

9B E3 

O-O 

27Q— K3 

Q— Kt3 (d) 

10 R— Q sq. 

11 Kt B3 

Q-K sq. 
Ki^B4 (a) 

28 P QKt 4(e) 

RxKt 

29RxR(/) 

P— B5 

12BxKt(6) 

BxB 

30 Q B3 

BxR 

13 Q— B4 

B-K2 

31QxB 

QxRch. 

14Kt— 04 
15 QR— : It sq. 

R— QKt sq. 
R— Kt5 

32 Resigns. 

(a) It is best to play P — KBS at the earliest favorable opportunity in this opening, 

for it opens the KB file and establishes the majority of Pawns on the Q side, 

and there could be no objection to this move at this stage. 
(6) White has now two Knights against two Bishops, and, therefore, the worst in 

quality of pieces, especially for the ending, 
(c) This Book is afterward much out of play and does not make any impression 

on the K side. P — Q4 or P — KBS were anyhow much stronger. 
{d) Preparing a trap for the contingency that White should try to advance the 

Pawns on the Q wing. 
(e) White drops into it just at a point when, owing to the bad position of Black's 

QR, he could have secured the advantage by P — KB4. 
(/) Fatal. 29 P X B, 29 R X P; 80 R X P, 80 P— B5; 81 Q— K sq., was stiU rathei 

in White's favor. 

BUBN S OAMEB. 

243 

Gteme No. 188. 

Played in the first round, April 6th. 

KUY LOPEZ. 

White 
A. Bam. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3B— Kt5 

40—0 

5Kt— B3 

6P— Q4 

7KtxP 

SKtxKt 

9 Q— K2 (b) 
10 B— Q3 
IIB— KB 
12QR-QBq. 
13P-B4 
14P— B5 
15 B— B3 (d) 
16R— B3 

17 B— Q4 

18 B— KB sq. (c) 
19BxKt 

Black 

J. Mason. 

P— K4 
QKfr-B8 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 (a) 
P-Q3 
PxP 
B— Q2 
BxKt 
Q— Q2 
O-O 
P— QB3 
Q— B sq. (c) 
B-^2 
B— B3 
R— Esq. 
P— QKt4 
B— Kt2 
P— B4 
BxB 

20Q— R6 
21R— B4 
22B— K2 
23 K— B sq. 
24Q— B3 
25E— Kt4 
26Q— Kt3 
27B— B3 
28Kt— K2 
29Q-B4 
30K— B2 
31 K— K sq. 
32K— Q2 
33 K— B2 (o) 
84K— Q3 
36 K— B2 

36 Q— B sq. 

37 K— Q sq. 
38RxRP 

39 R— R8 ch. 

40 Q— Kt 5 ch. 
41BxBch. 

P— R3 
P— B5 
Q— B4ch. 
QR— Q sq. 

K — ^B sq. 
Q— Q5 
Q-Q7 (/) 
QxP 
QxKtP 
B— Q5ch. 
Q— K8ch. 
P— B6 ch. 
QxPch. 
Q— B6 ch. (A) 
B— K4 
P— Kt5 
P— Kt6 
P— Kt7 
K— K2 
B— B3 
KxB, and wins 

(a) Kt X P is authorized and best at this juncture. 

(6) B X B ch. gave White a clear superiority of position in the centre and on the 
Q wing. 

(c) Necessary, as White threatened P — E5. 

(d) A more energetic way of pressing the attack was 15 P — KKt 4, 15 Kt — Q3; 16 
P— Kt 5, 16 P— B8 (if 16. . .Kt— K4; 17 P— B6, with an excellent attack); 17 
B— QB4 ch., 17 K— R sq.; 18 P— KR4, with a fine game. 

(«) A feeble move that gives the opponent time to consolidate his forces for a 

counter-attack on the Q side and in the centre, whilst 18 Kt — Q5, 18 Kt x Kt; 

l»PxKt. lOB— Bd (if l«...BxP; 20 Q— B5, 20 P— KB8; 21BxKtP, and 

wins); 20 Q— Kt4, gave White an excellent game. 
(/) Black breaks into the Q flank irresistibly after having cautiously guarded his 

own centre and K wing. 
(g) If 88 K— Q8, 88 Q— <)8 oh., and mates next move. 
(A) Black wins now with facility. 

244 

BUBN S GAMES. 

Game No. 189. 

Played in the second round. May 6tli. 

RUY 

LOPKZ 

White 

Black 

24KtxR 

BxP(fO 

J. Mason. 

A. Burn. 

25 BxP 

26 B B2 

Q-K4 
K1^K2 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

27 P— KR3 

B R4(e) 

2 KKt-B3 

QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 

28 Kt— Q3 

Q-B3 (/) 

3B Et5 

29B— Kt5 

Q Kt2 

4 0—0 

KtxP 

SOBxKt 

QxB 

6P Q4 

B— K2 

31 Kt-B4 

BxKtP 

6PxP 

0-0 

32KtxB 

Q K4 

Jt=ii<"' 

K^-B4 

33Kt— Kt3(9) 

B— Kt3 

Kt— K3 

34 Kt— B5 

9P— B3 

P— B3 (h) 

35P— Kt3 

K— B2 

lOPxP 

BxP 

36K— Kt2 

Q— B3 

UB— Q3 
12Q— Kt3 

Kt— K2 

37Q— K2 

P— B4 

P Q4 
P— KKt3 

38 Q R5ch. 

K— B sq. 

13 Q— B2 
14K1^E3 

39QxP 

P— B5 

P— B3 

40QxP 

Q K4 

ISKB^Ksq. 

Q— B2 (c) 

41 Q— B8 ch. 

K— B2 

16 Q— Q2 

B-Q2 

42 Q— Q7 ch. 
43Kt— Q6 

K— Bsq. 

17 QBr-Q sq. 

QR— Ksq. 

Q— B3 

18 Kt— B2 

Kt— B sq. 

44 Q— K8 ch. 

K— Kt2 

19 QK1^Q4 

KtxKt 

46 K<^B5 ch. 

K— R2 

20PxKt 

B— Kt6 

46 Kt-K7 disch. K— Kt 2 

21 QB— R6 

B -Kt2 

47 Q KtSch. 

K— R3 

22RxR 

RxR 

48 Kt— B5 ch. (h) Resigns- 

23 R— K sq. 

RxRch. 

(a) Out of the usual groove, but indifferent in its results. White develops his 
pieces quickly, but the far advanced Pawn at K5 will soon enable the advers- 
ary at least to equalize the game. 

(6) A very good move in accordance with modem principles in this and similar 
positions when the opponent's Pawn has advanced to K5, for it forces the 
opening of the KB file and exchanges a wing Pawn for one in the centre, 
besides opening' the KB file for the Itook and forming a majority of Pawns on 
the Q side. 

(c) Black had already the best of the game on the grounds given in onr last com- 
ment, but he ought to have proceeded to disentangle the minor pieces first, 
and he could well reserve developing the Queen perhaps to another post later 
on. Kt — Kt 2, with the view of entering with one of the Knights at KB4, or 
playing B— KKt 5, was in many respects stronger. 

(d) Black increases his majority of Pawns on the Q side, and consequently his 
advantage for the ending. His K side was safe enough by proper play, and he 
could well afford to give up a Pawn on the K side for the one in the Q centre. 

(e) B— K7 was much better. 

bubn's games. 

245 

(/) A grave blander which loses a piece. Q — Q8 was his only move. 

(g) 38 Q— B6, 88 Q— K2; 84 B— B5, 84 B— K4 (otherwise White wins by B—K6 ch., 
followed by Kt— B4, threatening Kt— Kt6ch.); 85 P— B4, 85 B~Q5 ch. (if 
35. . .B— Q8; 86 Bx Pch., and either wins the Queen by*Kt— B6 ch., or else 
forces mate in a few moves); 86 K — R3, 86 K — R sq.; 87 B — B8, threatening 
88 B X P, was a more direct way to victory. 

(A) Winning the Queen, but more precise was 48 Q — R7 ch., followed by Q — R4 
mate. 

Game No. 190. 

Played in the first round, April 3d. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

While 

BJmk 

18Ki^-Q4 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

A. Burn. 

19QxKt 
20P— KB4 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

21QxP 

2 KK1^B3 

QK<^B3 

22Q— Q4 

3B— B4 

B— B4 

23 QE— K sq. 

4P— B3 

Kt— B3 

24 B— QB sq. 

5P— Q4 

PxP 

25 Q B3 

6B— KKt5(a) 

P— KB3 

26Q-K5 

7BxKt 

QxB 

Q K2(6) 

27 Q— K4 

28 QR— K sq. 

8P-K5 

9 0—0 

PxP 

29Q— B3 

lOKtxP 

0 0 

30RxB 

11 Ki^Q5 

12 Q Kt8q.(c) 

-B^-ii^k) 

31 K— R sq. 
32P— KKt4 

13 Q K4 

P Q3 

33B— B2 

U QB^-Q sq. 

B— K3 

34PxP 

15B— Q3 

P— KKt3 

35Kt— Kt4 

16 K1^K3 

K— Kt2 • 

36R— K7ch. 

17 B— Kt sq. 

Q— Ksq. 

37 Resigns. 

KtxKt 

K— R2 

PxP 

B-Q3 

QR— Q sq. 
(e) Q— B3 

Q— Kt3 

B— Kt5 

R-Q4 

B— Q7 
if) P-KB4 

BxR 

B^Q7(S') 
KR— Q sq. 
RxKtP 
RxB 
PxP 
B— Q4 
K— R sq. 

(a) A new venture that involves the sacrifice of a Pawn for an attack which 

seemingly presents great difficulties to the opponent for a long time. 
(6) If 8. . .Kt X P; » Q— K2, 9 P— Q3; 10 P x P, and wins a piece. 

(c) Threatening Kt— B«ch., followed by Q— KKt6ch., which would win in a 
few moves. 

(d) We prefer K — R sq., with the view of retreating Kt — K2. 

(e) If 28 Q X P, 23 Q— BS, threatening B— QB4. 

(/) 28 K — R sq. would not save the exchange, as Black could answer R— (j.1. 
(y) It is now an easy matter for Black to win. 

246 

bttbm's oaxks. 

Game No. 191. 

Played in the second round, April 29th. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

Wlitte 
A. Burn. 

IP— K4 
2KK1^B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
6P— Q3 
6P— B3 
7B— B2 
8Q— K2 
9PxP 

10 0—0 

11 R— K sq. 

12 QKt— Q2 
13Q— Bsq. 
14 Kt— K4 
15BxKt 
16B— Kt6 
17PxP 
ISQB^Qsq. 
19B— R4 
20QB— KKt3 
21K<^R4 
22Q— K2 

BlacJe 
W. H. K. Pollock. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
B— B4 
P— QKt4 
P-Q4 
0—0 
KtxP(a) 
B— Ksq. 
B— Kt 2 (6) 
Kt— B5 
B— Kt3 
P— KB4 (c) 
PxKt(d) 
Q-Q3 
P— R3 
Q— Kt3 
R— KBsq. 
QR— K sq. 
Q-R4 
Q— Kt4 

23 0— Q2 
24K1^B5 
25B— Kt3ch. 
26QxPch. 
27KtxQ 
28 Kt-B7 ch. 
29Kt-Kt5 
30P— KR4 
31B— Q5 
32B— Q2 
33B^B2 

34 B— K6 (h) 

35 K— R2 

36 R— QB sq. 

37 P— KB3 

38 QR— Q sq. 

39 Kt^B7 ch. 
40RxR 

41 R— Q sq. 

42K— R3 

43KtxKP 

44BxKt 

45 B— B5 ch. 

46RxB 

47PxP 

Q-R4 
P— Kt3(e) 
(/)K-R8q. (?) 

B— Bsq. 
K— Kt2 
K— R3 
Kt-R4 
B— Kt5 
QR— Qsq. 
P— B3 
R— Q6 
B— Q8 
B— R4 
R-Q7 
B— K6 
K— R2 
BxR 
Kt— B5 
P— Kt4(i) 
KtxKt 
Rr-Ksq. 
K— Kt sq. 
RxB 
Resigns. 

(a) We prefer Q x P, followed as soon as possible by QB — ^KKt 5. 

(6) This Bishop is not well placed on this diagonal. B — EB4 would have had 

more bearing against the adverse Q side and also afforded more protection to 

his own K side. 
(c) This loses a Pawn without necessity. Kt — Kt 8 was certainly better. 
(d)15...PxB; 16B— KtSch., 16 K— Bsq.; 17 QKt— Kt 6 would have lost the 

exchange. 
(e) Black plays more desperately than was called for by the situation. Though 

he was a Pawn behind, he held still a fair position. Kt — Q sq., followed by 

Kt — K8, was his best play. 
(/) Winning another Pawn by force. 
(g) If K— Ra, White would, of course, reply Q— Q7 ch. 
{h) He sees through the adverse clever scheme. Better than 84 Kt — B7 ch., 84 K 

— R4; 86KtxB, 85PxB; 86 P— QKt 4, 86 Kt— B5; 87 Ktr-B6, 87 PxP, 

threatening P — K6, and Black, though the exchange behind, has still some 

fight left, 
(t) It. was all hopeless, and he could only speculate on some blunder on the part of 

the opponent, which, however, does not occur. 

bubn's games. 

247 

Game No. 193. 

Played in the first roand, April UtL 

KUY LOPEZ. 

White 
A. Bum. 

IP— K4 
2KKt^B3 
3B— Kt5 
4 0— O 
6P— Q4 
6P— Q5 
7K^-B3 
8Kt— Q2 
9B— B4 
lOKKtxP 
llQxKt 

12 Q— K3 

13 B— K sq. 
14QxB 
ISQxP 
16B— K3 
17Q— KB4 
18P— QB3 

Black 
J. W. Showalter. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt— Q3 
P— K6 
Kt— Q5(o) 

PxKt 
B— B3 
Q— K2 (6) 
BxKt 
O— O (c) 
Q— B3 
Kt— B4 
P— Q3 
KtxB 

19QxQ 

20 BxKt 

21 P— B3 
22PxP 
23B-K7 
24B— B2 

26 QB_K sq. 
26B— Kt3 
27KE— K6 

28 P— KB4 

29 KB— K3 
30K— B2 
31K— B3 
32P— KB3 
33B^K8 
34BxB 
35BxB 
36 K— Kt3 
37En-QKt8 
38B— B4 

PxQ 
P— B4 
PxP 
P— QB3 
P— Kt4 
B— B2 
B— Kt2 
K— Bsq. 
B— Qsq. 
B— Bsq. 
B— Kt2clL 
B— Kt5 
K— Kt2(cO 
B— Kt3 
BxB 
B^KtS 
E^KB8 
P— KB4 
Br— Kt8ch. 
Besigns. 

(a) Weak ; for he cannot maintain the Pawn, and he only subjects himself to an 
inferior position. Kt — K4 was the right play. 

(b) Also useless. Bx Kt, followed by O — O, was preferable. 

(c) He could not save the Pawn. If 14. . . P— B8; 16 B— B4, 15 P x P; 16 B x Kt, 
lOQxB; 17QxP, 17 B— Bsq.; 18QR— Qsq., followed by B— Kt8, with a 
winning game. 

(d) This accelerates his defeat which, however, could not be averted for long, as 
White was a clear Pawn ahead, with the superior game. 

248 

BTTBN 8 OAHE8. 

Game No. 198. 

Played in the second round, May 11th. 

EUY LOPEZ. 

Black 

A. Burn. 

P— K4 
QK1^B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
P— QB3 (o) 
QPxB 
B— KB4 (6) 
KtxKt 
B— K3 
Q— Q3 
P— E3 
B— K2 
O— O 
K— R2 (c) 

Q-Q4 

K— B sq. 

17 P— B4 

18 QR-Q sq. 

19 KB— K sq. 
20Q— 02 
21BxP((7) 
22QxPch. 
23R— Q3 
24Q— E5 
25B— B3 

26 B— K4 

27 Kt— Kt 6 ch. 

28 Kt— K7 ch. 

29 Kt— Kt 6 ch. 

30 Kt— K7 ch. 

31 Kt— B5 (j) 
32R— K7 
33QxBch. (0 
34B(B3)xQch, 

Q— Qsq. 
Q— B sq. 
B— KB4 (e) 
Q-Qsq.(/) 
PxB 
B— R2 (/«) 
B— Kt 4 
Q-B3 
Q— Kt2 
P— B3 (i) 
K— Kt sq. 
K— R sq. 
K— Kt sq. 
K— R sq. 
Q— B2(X-) 
K— Kt sq. 

QxQ 

Resigns. 

White 
J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3B— Kt5 

4 0—0 

6P-Q4 

6BxKt 

7Q— K2 

8Kt— B3 

9QxPch. 
lOPxKt 
11 Q— KKt 6 
12Q— K3 
13 Kt— K5 
14Q— Kt3 
16B— B4 
16Q— Q3ch. (rf) 

(0) 5...B — K2 is in authorized order. The slight alteration in the sequence of 
moves gives White an opportunity for a novel and rather strong attack. 

(6) If 7...Kt-Q3; SPxP, 8 Kt— B4; 9R— Qsq., 9 B— Q2; 10 P— K6, lOPxP: 

11 Et — E5, with a winning game. But 7...Kt — KB-H seems rather better 

than the move in the text, 
(c) A slight error that causes him great trouble afterward. K — R sq. was the 

proper play. 
(ci)In consequence of the place chosen by Black for his King on the 14th move 

White now gains important time for his development with this check, 
(e) Perhaps B — B3 first would have been wiser policy in the main, for he had the 

advantage for the ending, owing to his two Bishop.':, and he had no need to 

face dangerous complications. 
(/) White threatened Kt x QBP, and Black's KB required protection. 
ig) A high-spirited sacrifice, considering the strength of his opponent, and, more- 
. over, it is one that was not likely to be beaten in actual play, for it cannot 

ea.sily be demonstrated unsound even in analysis. 
Qi) If 22. . .K— Kt sq. ; 28 B— K8, 28 B— R5; 24 R— B8, 24 B x QBP (if 84. . .Q— 

Kt 4; 25 R— KKt 8, and wins); 26 R— Q2, followed by R— KR8, and wins. 
(i) Black has hit on the right play up to this, where, however, he fails to grasp 

the situation by 26. .K— Ktsq.; 27 R— KKt 8 (or 27 R— KKt4, 27 P— BS; 

28P— KB4, 28B— KB4, and should win), 27...P— KB8; 28 R— K sq., 28 

QR— K sq. ; 29 P— KB4, 29 B— KKt 3, with a winning game. 
(j) Having recovered time, which he was probably short of on the 80th move, 

Mr. Showalter seizes the right plan with great ingenuity. 
(k) If 81 . . .Q— Q2; 82 Kt— K7, and wins. 

(1) Much better game than R x Q. 

BURN S GAMES. 

249 

Game No. 194. 

Played in the first round, April 1st. 

BUY 

LUPF.7,. 

White 

Black 

22 P— KB3 

R^B4 

A. Bum. 

J. Tsubenhaus. 

23B— K5 
24 B Kt3 

K<^K3 
P— KR4 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

25 K— R sq. 

QR— KB sq. 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

26 Q— K3 

B— B sq. 

3B— Kt5 

Kt-B3 

27 Kt-K2 

P— B4 

4 0—0 

KtxP 

28 Q Kt3 

B— R3 

5P-Q4 

B— K2 

29 Q— R3 (c) 

B— Kt2 

6Q K2 

Kt— Q3 

30Q— Kt3(/) 

B B3 

7BxKt 

KtPxB 

31 Kt— Kt sq. 

K1^Q5 

8PxP 

Kt— Kt2 

32 Q B3 

Kt-K3 

9K^-Q4 

0—0 

33B^Q2 

P Q6 

10 Kt^QB3 

Kir-m 

34Q— Q3 

Q-R3 
Ki^Kt4 

11 E^K sq. (a) 

Kt^K3 

35R(Q2) K2 

12B— K3 

K— Kt sq. 

36 P— KB4 (g) 

P— R5 

13 Kt— B5 

P— B3 

37PxKt 

QxP 
B-Q4 

14KtxBch. 

QxKt 

38 R— K6 (h) 

loPxP 

QxP 

39 R K8 

PxB 

16 QI^-Kt sq. 

P-Q4 (6) 

40RxRch. 

RxR 

17BxP 

E^Rsq. 

41 QxP 

QxQ 

18 B K3 

Q Kt3(c) 

42PxQ 

Rr-B7 

19 QEr-Q sq. (d] 

1 B— R3 

43Rr-K2 

BxPch. 

20Q-Q2 
21B— Q4 

QR— Q sq. 

44K— R2 

RxR 

Kt B5 

45KtxR 

B K5 

(a J Probably better than R — Q sq. , usually played in this variation earlier or at 
this point. 

(b) He ought not to have left the RP unprotected any longer. 

(c) If 18. . ,P— Qo; 19 Kt— K4, followed by B^Q2. 

(d) It was better, no doubt^ to play the other R — Q sq. in order to make room 
for the retreat of Q— K sq., followed by Kt— K2. 

{e) He could not venture on R x P on account of the rejoinder P — B5. 

(/) This only drives the Bishop to a better place. 30 Q— R7, and if 30. . . B— B3; 
31 Q— R6, 31 B— Q3; 33 Kt— B3, threatening Kt— K4 or R— K5, would have 
dislodged the adverse Bishop from an important diagonal and opened better 
opportunities for a counter-attack or offering exchanges. 

(y)If 36 P— KR4, 36 KtxP; 37KtxKt, 37RxKt; 38PxR, 38RxP, with a 
winning game. But this, as well as the effect of the threatened P — R5, could 
have been better parried by 36 R— Ko, 36 RxR; 37 RxR, 37 P— R5; 38 
BxRP, 38QxB; 39Q— Kt6, 39 KtxP; 40PxKt, and if 40...BxPch.; 
41 Kt X B, 41 R X Kt; 42 R— K8 ch., 42 R— B sq. ; 43 Q— K6 ch., and wins. 

(7i) There was hardly else to do. If 38 Kt— R3, 38 R— B8 ch. ; 39 R x R, 39 R x R 
ch.; 40 Kt— Kt sq., 40 PxB; and if 41 QxP, 41 Q— B8, and wins. 

260 bubm's games. 

46K— Ktsq. BxP 77 Kl^-Q sq. K— Kt5 

47K— B2(?) K— B2 78 K— Q4 B— B6 

48Kt— B4 B— K6 79 Ki^B3 K— Kt6 

49K— K2 P— B5 80Kt— Kt5 B— K7 

50K— Q2 P— Kt4 81K<H-B3 B— Q6 

51Kt— E3 K— B3 82Kl^Kt5 K— B7 

52Kt— B2 B— B6 83 K— K3 K— Q8 

53K— B2 P— Kt5 84 Kl^B3 ch. K— K8 

54K— Q2 K— K4 85 K— Q4 0') K— Q7(A-) 

55K— B2 K— Q4 86 Kt— Q5 K— Q8 

66K— Q2 K— B4 87 K— K3 K— K8 

57K— B2 K— Kt5 88K— B4(0 K— Q7 

58K— Q2 P— B4 89KxP B— K5 

69K— B2 P— B6 90Kt-Kt6 P— B6 

eOPxPch. PxP 91Kt^B5ch. K— Q6 

61P— R4 KxP 92Kt— R3 K— K6(ot) 

62KxP K— Kt4 93K— Kt6(7i) B— Q6 

63Kt— Q3 K— B3 94 K— B6 K— Q5 

64Kt— B4 K— Q3 95P— Kt4 K— B4 

65K— B4 B— K6 96 K— K6 B— E2 

66K— B3 B— Q4 97P— Kt5 B— Kt3(o) 

67K— Q3 K— K4 98 K— B6 K— Kt6 

68K— K3 B— Kt2 '99KxB KxKt 

69Kt— R5 B— Bsq. 100 K— B7 P— B7 

70K— Q3 B— K3 lOlP— Kt6 ' P queens (p) 

71Kt^B4 P— B5cli. 102P— Kt7 Q— B5 ch. 

72K— K3 B— B4 103K— Kt3 Q— Kt5ch. 

73Kt-K2 K— Q4 104K— B7 Q— B4 ch. 

74K<H-B3ch. K— B4 105K— Kt8 K— Kt6 

75K— B4 B— Q2 106 K— R8 Q— E4 ch. 

76K— K3 B— B3 107 Resigns. 

(t) A wearysome ending ensues now which taxes the patience of both players to 

the utmost. 
(J) Kt — Q5 was his only good move here. 
(k) It is strange that apparently both players should have overlooked an easy way 

to victory by K — B7. 
(1) White was now probablv worn out, as is usually the case with a player who 

fights against large odds and has to be constantly on the watch, while his 

opponent, who, at any rate, can hardly lose, may take it easy. Ingenious as 

the scheme is which now Black plans, a master like Mr. Bum would have seen 

through it under ordinary circumstances. 88 Kt— B8, 88 K— B8; 89 K— B4. 

89K— B7; 90 KxP, 90 K— K6; 91 K— Kt5, 91 K— Q7; 98Kt— Kt6 would 

have drawn the game. • 

(m) Black's conduct of the ending from this point is a regular study. He paralyzes 

the adverse King and Pawn for some moves and also gains time for cutting off 

the retreat of the adverse Knight. 
{n)If 98 Kt— B4 ch., 98 K— Q5, followed by B— Q6, and wins. 
(o) For ingenuity of conception and execution Black's ending plan of attack 

belongs to the finest specimen of end play in the actual game. 
(p) A regular book position is now formed in which Black wins with ease. 

buhn's oahes. 

251 

Game No. 105. 

Played in the second round, April 26th. 

DOUBLE BUY LOPEZ. 

White 
J. Tanbeubaas. 

IP— K4 

2QKt— B3 

3 Kt— B3 

4B— Kt5 

5 0—0 

6BxKt 

7 P— Q3 • 

8Ki^K2 

9 Kt-Kt 3 (c) 
lOP— B3 
IIB— Kt5 
12B— K3 

13 Q— K2 

14 QR— Q aq. 

15 Kt— K sq. 
16P— KB4 
17BxP 
ISRxKt 
19B^B2 

Black 

A. Bum. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
B— Kt5 
O— O 

KtPxB(o) 
P-Q3 

Kt— K sq. (b) 
P— QB4 
B— R4 
P— KB3 
R— Kt sq. 
P— B3 
Kt— B2 
K1H-K3 
PxP 
KtxB 
B— K3 
E^B2(d) 

20P— B4 
21P— Kt3 
22Ki^B3 
23P— K»3 
24RxB 
25Q— B2 

26 K1^K2 

27 K— R sq. (g) 
28Q— Q2 

29 P— QKt 4 (A) 
30PxP 
31P— Kt4(t) 

32 K(^B3 

33 R— QB sq. 

34 B^QB2 
35QxR 

36 Kt— Q sq. 
37K— Kt2 
38R— B2 
39PxP 
40 R— B sq. 
41Q— K2 

KR^Kt2 
B— B6 (e) 
B— KKt5 
BxKt 
P— Kt3 
B— K4 
R-K2(/) 
Q— Kt3 
QR— K sq. 
R— Kt sq. 
PxP 
Q— Qsq. 
R(K2)— Kt2 
B^Kt7 0-) 
RxR 
Q-R4 
Q— K8ch. 
P— KR4 
PxP 
B-Q6 
Q— R5 
K— Kt2 

(a) Purstiant to general principles, it ia mostly bettor to capture toward the centre. 
(6) 8 P — QB4 wad much preferable. 

(c) For now Whito might have obtained a very good game by 9 P — B8, 9 B — QB4 
(if 9. . .B— R4; 10 Q— R4. winning a Pawn); 10 P— Q4, ete. 

(d) Black dare not capture the RP on account of the rejoinder P — QKt4. 

(e) Black has skilfully forced the advance of the adverse Pawns on the Q side for 
the purpose of gaining entrance for this Bishop which keeps command of the 
hostile weakened centre. 

(y) Q — Kt8 was preferable, and Black's best plan was afterward to try forcing an 

opening by the advance 'of the QRP. 
(jg) We think that Whito could have extricated himself, with an even game, by 

P— Q4. 
(h) As Black dare not capture this Pawn on pain of losing a piece, this move 

practically only gives the opponent command of an open QKt file, which 

White cannot keep closed for long. P — Q4 was even now good for a draw, we 

believe, 
(t) Weak, and the source of trouble on the K side. 
(,J)9H. . .Q — R4 was stronger and likely to lead to the following continuation : 

84Kt— Ktsq., 84 Q— R6; 85 Kt— B8, 85Q— Kt6; 86Kt^Ktsq., 86QxKt; 

87 Bx Q. 87 B X B ch. ; 88 K— Kt 2, 88 QB— Kt 7, and wins. 

252 

42 B— R sq. 

43 K— B3 (k) 
44Q-K3 
45KtxQ 

46 Ki^Kt 2 

47 Kt— B4 (m) 
48KxB 

49 R—QKt sq. 
50B— Kt6 
61RxP(«) 
52 P— K5 

bubn's 

OAMES. 

Q Kt4 

63 K— K4 

B— K4(0 

54 B^B7 ch. 

QxQch. 

55 B— QB7 

B— Kt7 

56PxP 

ExP 

57 K— Q5 

BxKt 

58BxQ 

P— B4 

59KxP 

P— R5 

60P— Q4 

P— E6 

61 P— Q5 

B— B8 

62 P— Q6 

B B8ch. 

63 Besigns. 

P— B7 
K— B sq. 
P— B4 ch. 
PxPch. 
P queens 
BxB 
P— B5 
P— B6 
P— B7 
P queens 

(k) White defends himself very ingeniously, but his game is too much broken up 
on both wings. 

(Q R — Kt 8 was likely to lead to a successful attack without exchanging heavy 
pieces, but, of course, this is good enough, as it wins a Pawn. 

(jn) The reduction of his forces weakens his defence, but he could not make much 
use of his Knight anyhow. If 47 K^-K3, 47 Rr-Q7; 48 R-Q sq., 48 R x R; 
49 Ktx R, 49 5— Q5, and wins. 

(n)No better was 51 R— R6, 51 R— R8; 52 K— Kt8 (or 52 K— K8, 52 P— R7; 53 
K— Q2, 58R— KR8, and wins), 52...P— R7; 58 K— Kt2, o8K— Kt4, and 
wins. It will be seen from this variation, as well as from actual play, that 
Black had well calculated his end play up to the winning point. 

LIPSCHOTZ' GAMEa 

Game No. 196. 

Played in the first round, April 3d. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 
S. Lipschatz. 

IP— K4 

2 QKlh-B3 

3P-XB4 

4K<H-B3 

5 QKt— B4 (o) 

6KtxB 

7B— Kt5 

8P— Q3 

9 0— O 
10BxKt(6) 
llPxP 

12 K— R sq. 

13 Q— K sq. 

Black 
D. G. Baird. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
QKt— B3 
B— Kt3 
RPxKt 
Ki^B3 
Q-K2 
O— O 
PxB 
PxP 
Kt— K sq. 
P— KB3 

14B— Q2 
16Q— R4 
16B— B3 
17 P— QKt 3 
18B— Kt2 
19E— B2 
20P— E4 

21 QR— KB sq. 

22 P— KR3 

23 PxP 
24BxKt 
25P— KKt4 
26 Q— Kt 3 
27P— R4 
28Q— Kt2 

29 R— KKt sq. 

P-QB4 
Kt-Q3 
R— K sq. (c) 
Kt— Kt4 
Kt-Q5 
B— Q2 
R-R2 
P— QB3 
P^-QKt4 
PxP 
BPxB 
P— R3(d) 
R— QBsq. 
R (R2)— B2 
Q— K3 
R— B6 (e) 

(a) We much prefer B — Kt 5 at this juncture. 

(6) This merely equalizes the game, whereas, P — B8 instead, would have retained a 
slight advantage of position. 

(c) Unnecessary. 16. . . Kt— Kt 4 was safe, for if 17 B x P, 17 P— KKt 4; 18 Kt x 
P, 18 PxKt; 19 BxBch., 19 KxR, and White's attack does not amount to 
much in comparison to the superiority of a piece on the other side, for which 
Black has only given up two Pawns. 

(d) We believe that Black's prospects of attack on the Q side were better than 
those of the opponent on the other wing, and he could at once proceed to 
concentrate his forces on the open QB file, commencing with B — QB sq. 
KR — R sq., with the view of exchanging Rooks by R — R8, was also better. 

(e) Feeble plav. P— KKt4 made his game safe on the K side, and left him free 
hand for the attack on the other side. 

254 

LDPSOHGTZ' OAHEa 

SOP— Kt5 
31PxP 
32Q— Kt3 
33PxP 
34R-B2 
36Kt— Kt5(ff) 
36Q— R4 
37KtxR 
38R(R2)— Kt2 

BPxP 
R— KBsq. 

QxPch. 
Q— B3 
P— Kt3 
R— B2 (h) 
Q— B6 ch. 
ExEt 

39Q— B2 
40RxQcL 
41B^Kt5 
42RxKP 
43E— R2 
44K— Kt3 
45Br-K7 
46P— K5 

QxQ 
K— Kt2 
P— Kt5 
K— R3 
P— Kt4 
K— Kt3 
R— B4 
Resigns. 

(/)The Bishop is here injadiciously removed from a good post to one on \rhich 
he is of little use, and moreover obstructs his own Book from getting into 
action again at QB2 or B sq. 

(g) This very clever coup decides the game in favor of White, whose skilful 
tactics on the K side for some time are highly commendable. 

(h) There was no good defence. If 86 . . . B— Q2 ; 87 R— B3, 87 Q— Kt 2 (of course, 
if 87...QxB; 88 Q— K7 mate); 88 KxRch., 88 ExR!; 89R— Bsq. ch., 
89 E— K sq.; 40 R— 67, 40 Q— Kt sq. ; 41 R— R7, and wins. 

Game No. 107. 
Played in the second round, April 29th. 

RUY 

LOPKZ, 

White 

Black 

18 P— QKt 3 

QR— K sq. 

D. O. Baiid. 

S. lipschfttz. 

19 B Kt,2 

20 P— K5 

P-Q4 
RxP 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

21 Kt— B3 

RxR 

2KKI^B3 

QKt— B3 
P-Q3 

22RxR 

B— Q3 ch. 
RxRch. 

3B— Kt5 

23 K— R sq. 

40— 0 

B— K2 

24KtxR 

P— Q5 
B— K6 

5BxKtch. 

PxB 

25 Kt-Q sq. 

6P 04 
7KtxP 
8 P-KB4 (a) 

PxP 

26 Q-Q2 

Q-Q4 

B 02 
Kt-33 

27 P— QB3 (e) 

28 K1^B2 

%i^y' 

9 QK1^B3 

O-O 

29 K— Kt sq. 

B— B5 

10 P— KR3 

P— B4 

30 Q—Q sq. 

B K6 

11 Kt-B3 

B— B3 

31 Q— K2 

Kt-Q4 

12 R— K sq. 

13 P— B5 (i) 

R— Ksq. 

32 PxP 

PxP 

R— Kt sq. 

33 Ktr-B3 

QBxKt(9) 

14 R— QKt sq. 

Q— B sq. (c) 

34QxB 

QxQ 

15 K— R2 

^lt^<'" 

35PxQ 

Kt— B5 (h) 

16 Q— Q3 

36 Resigns, (t) 

ITKt— Q2 

R— K2 

(a) Against the defence adopted by Black it is probably the best plan to support 
the centre by P — KB3, or at any rate to reserve the KBP in case such a sup- 

UFSGHUTZ' OAME& 255 

port should be necessary. Its immediate advance leaves the KP weak and 
makes it a very sensitive point of attack. 
(6) This advance renders his position in the centre quite precarious, and if he had 
foreseen the tremendous centre attack to which he would be subjected, he 
would have seized his last chance of staving off the same by Kt — Q5 at this 
point 

(c) A veiy fine and shrewd preparation for the attack. He prevents White's 
releasing himself by Kt — Q5, for now he may answer B x Kt, followed by the 
capture of the KBP. 

(d) The plan of attack here pursued in the K centre by R — K sq. and then with- 
drawing B — B sq. was first adopted by the editor against various American 
players in 1882 and 1888, in a similar position which arose in another form of 
this opening from the defence 8. . .P~-QR8; 4 B— R4, 4 KKt— K2. It is still 
more effective here, as Black could also bring his QB and the Queen to bear 
against the weak adverse KP, and Mr. Lipschlltz espies his opportunity in 
this position with acute judgment. 

{e) Almost all White's moves were forced since Black's 16th move, and he can 

actually do nothing now to retrieve himself, 
r/) Threatening Q x RP ch. 
(g) Good enough, but he could have won also by 38. . .Kt — B5; 34 Q— Q sq. (or 34 

Q— R6, 84QBxKKt, and wins; for if 35 PxB, 86Q— Kt4ch., etc.), 34... 

Kt X RP ch. ; 35 P X Kt, 35 B x Kt, and wins. 
(h) Black's play throughout this game is an excellent specimen of modem style, 
(t) If 36 B— R3 or R sq., 36 Kt x P ch. wins, while otherwise Black wins by B x 

Kt, followed by Kt— Q6 ch. 

Game No. 198. 

Played in the first round, April llth. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White Black 4BxKtcli. PxB 

J. W. Baird. S. Upschiltz, ^ P-Q4^ P-^3 (a) 

IP— K4 P— K4 7PxKP BPxP 

2KKt— B3 QKi^B3 8 B— KKt 5 Q— Q2 (c) 

SB— QKt5 P— Q3 9 0—0 P— KR3 (d) 

(a> This strongly supports the soundness of Black^s defence on the 3d move. 
Players of the old school used to capture the QP at this juncture, but the move 
in the text keeps the adverse KKt inactive for a long time, and is therefore a 
great improvement. 

(6) The advance of this Pawn contributes greatly toward the weakness of his K 
side later on. 

(c) A good move, though contrary to old notions of development. It dispenses 
with the necessity of weakening the K side by the advance of the KRP. 

(<f>But this is inconsistent with his last move, though it introduces a K side 
attack. 9.-.Kt^Kt3; 10 QKt— B3, 10 B— K2; llBxB, llQxB; 12 Kt— 

256 

upscmrrz games. 

10 B-K3 

11 Kt^R2 
12Q— R5 
13 QKfc-B3 
MQxQch. 

15 KB— K sq. 

16 QB^Q sq. 
17P— QKt3 

18 P— B3 

19 Kt— K2 
20BxKt(«) 

P— KKt4 
Kt— Kt3 
Q— B2 
Kt— B5 
KxQ 
B— K2 
B— K3 
E— R2 
P— KB4 
QE— KKt sq. 
KtPxB 

21 K— B sq. 

22 B^KKt sq 

B— E5 
B— B7 

23 R— KB sq. (/) B— K6 

24 R (B sq.)- K 

25 Kt— KB sq. 

26 P— KKt 4 
27KtxP 
28RxB 
29KtxR 

30 Resigns. 

R (R2)- 
B— B7 
PxPe. p 
BxE 
RxKt 
RxKt 

Kt2 

K2, 13 B — K8, followed by 0—0, afforded a stronger attack than the pi an 

here initiated. 
(e) White has thus far kept his K side quite secure, but plays the adverse game 

with this exchange. 20 R— QS, and if 20. . .Kt x Kt; 21 R (Q2) x Kt, 21 P— 

Kt5; 22BPxP, 23PxP; 23KtxP, 28BxKt; 24PxB, 24 B— R5; 25 B— 

B2 would have drawn without much diflSculty. 
(/) It made little difference wiiat he played now. The onslaught of the adverse 

Rooks on the open KKt file could not be checked. 

Game No. 199. 
Played in the second round, May llth. 
BUY LOPEZ. 

White 
8. Lipschiitz. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
5 0—0 
6P-Q4 
7PxP(6) 
8 P— QB3 (c) 
9B— B2 

10 B— B4 

11 QB— KKt 3 

12 Q— Q3 

13 B— Kt 3 ch. 

14 QK1^Q2 

15 B— B2 

16 KR— K sq. 
17PxP 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 
0-0 (a) 
KtxKP 
Kfr-B4 
R— Ksq. 
K^-K3 
P— B3 

Kt— B sq. {(I) 
Kt— K3 (e) 
K— R sq. 
Kt— B sq. 
P-QKt 4 (/) 
PxP(gr) 

18 QR— Q sq. 

19 Q— Q5 {//) 
20Q— R5 
21KtxKt 
22 Kt— B3 
23Kt— R4 

24 Kt— B5 

25 Q— R6 

26 P— KB4 

27 Q— R5 

28 Kt— R6 
29PxP 

30 R— KB sq. 

31 B— Kt 3 

32 Q— KB3 

33 B— B2 

34 Kt— B7 ch. 
35BxR 
36RxB 

P-Q3 
B— Q2 
K<^K4 
BPxKt 
B— B3 
R— K2 
Q-K sq. (0 
R-B2 
QxQBsq. 
K<^Kt3 
R— Kt2 
PxP 

Q-Qsq. (./) 
Q— KB sq. 
Q— B4 ch. 
Q— B sq. 
(Jk)RxKt 
Kt— B5 (0 
Resigns. 

UPtBCHtrz' aAME& 257 

(a) P— QKt 4 is the right pl^y. 

(6) "White might have also proceeded with 7 QKt— B8, which would have secured 
the superiority of position. 

(c) A very good move, the object of which will be soon perceived. 

(d) Now that White's QB was out of the way and could not easily be brought to 
bear against the hole on the K side, it would have been better to advance P — 
KKt8. 

(e) Of course, if 18. . .K— R sq. ; 14 B— B7, and wins. 

(/") The breaking up of his K side is the result of this. 16. . .P x P; 17 Kt x P, 
17 Et X Kt; 18 B X Kt, 18 P— Q8 were preferable, and Black had then rather 
the better game for the ending on account of the majority of Pawns on the Q 
side. 

07)Best, if 17...BxP; 18 BxP, ISRxRch.; 19 RxR, 19QxB; 20 R— K8 
(threatening QxP mate), 20...P— Kt8; 21 RxKtch., with a strong attack 
and a Pawn ahead. 

(h) An excellent move. 

(i) He had much better prospects of parrying the attack if he had exchanged 
Bishop for Knight. 

0')lf 80. . .Q— KB sq.; 81 BxKt, 81 PxB; 82 Kt— B7 ch., 82 K— Kt sq.; 88 Q— 
R8ch., 38KxKt; 84QRxBch., 84K— Ksq.l (if 84. . .K— K8; 85 Q-R8 
mate); 85 Q x Q ch., 85 K x Q; 86 Rx B ch., and wins. 

(k) A well-nursed attack is now brought to its culmination, and White breaks in 
with irresistible force. 

(T) A piece was lost beyond remedy, for if Q x B, the Rook remained undefended' 

Qame No. 200. 

Played in the first round, April 9tlL 

SICILIAN OPENING. 

White 

Bhck 

4P Q4 

PxP 

S. lipschfltz. 

H. E. Bird. 

5KtxP 
6B— K3 

B— Kt2 

IP— K4 

P-QB4 

7B— K2 

B — Q2 

2 QKt-B3 
8Kt— B3 

QKt-B3 

80 0 

P— KR4 

P-KKt3 

9 Q— Q2 (a) 

P— B6 (6) 

(a) White ought to have taken the earliest opportunity of fixing his Knight at Q5, 
as the opponent could not get rid of it excepting by an exchange later on that 
would open White's K file or by advancing P — K8, which would leave Black's 
KP weak. 

(6) Black proceeds in his usual wa^r vrith an advance of the Pawns on the K side, 
which may cause just a little inconvenience to the opponent, but at great 
hazard to his own game, for the further such Pawns are pushed Ihie weaker 
they become for the ending. 

258 

LIPSCHUTZ GAMES. 

10 P— KK3 (c) 

11 P— 113 (d) 
I'iBxKt 

13 B-Q3 

14 Q— K2 
15BxB 

16 QR-K sq. 

17 Q— K3 

18 B— K2 
19B— Kt4 

20 Br— Q sq. 

21 Q-Q4 
22BxQ 
23BxBch. 
24 P— B3 
25R— B2 

26 Kt— Q sq. 

27 Kt— K3 

28 P— B3 

29 E (Q4)— Q2 
30Kt— Kt4 
31PxP 
82 Kt— K3 

33 Kt— B2 

34 Kt— Q4 

35 B^B sq. 

Kt— B3 
KtxKt 
B— B3 
Q-K4 
K^-E4 
KtxB ■ 
(p) Kt— K3 
P— KKt4 
Kt— B5 
Q-K4 
B^KKt sq. 
xQ 
-Q2 
KxB 

KE^QB sq. 
E— B4 
QE^QB sq. 
E— Kt4 
E— B3 
P— K3 
P— B4 
PxP 
E— K4 
E— Bsq. 
E(Bsq.)— Ksq. 
Kt— E4 

36 E (B sq.)— Q sq. 

Kt— Kte 

37 K— B2 
38BPxP(/) 
39 K— B sq. 
40ExKt 
41 PxP 
42P— Kt5 
43Ki^B3 
44 B^KB2 (g) 
45KxP 

46 Kt— E2 
47KxE 
48Kt— B3 

49 Kt— Q4 ch. 

50 Kt^Kt 5 
olKtxP 

52 K— K3 

53 Kt— Kt 5 (i) 
54K^-Q4 

55 K— Q2 
66 K— B sq. 
57 K— Kt sq. 

P— Kt 5 
Kt— K5 cL 
KtxEch. 
PxP 
E— K5 
E — B sq. ch. 
P— E6 
PxPch. 
B (B sq.)— 

B5 (h) 
ExEch. 
K— K3 
K— B4 
KxP 
P-Q4 
E^KE5 
K— B4 
K— K4 
R— E6 ch. 
E^E7 ch. 
K— K5 
K-Q6 

58 K— E2 

59 Kt— Kt 3 
60Ki^Q4 

61 Kt— B5 

62 Ki^Q4 

63 Kt— Kt 3 
64Kt— Q4 

65 Kt^B6 

66 Kt— Q4 

67 Kt— Kt 3 

68 Kt^Q2 ch. 

69 Kt— Kt 3 

70 Kt— B sq. ch. 

71 Kt-Kt 3 

72 Kt^B sq. ch. 

73 Kt— Kt 3 

74 Kt^Q4 

75 Kt— B6 

76 Kt^Q4 

77 Kt— B6 
78K<^Q4 
79 Kt— B5 
80K1^Q4 

81 Kt^B2 

82 K^-Q4 
83Kt— Kt3 
84Kt— Q4 
85K«^Kt3 

86 Kt— Q4 

87 Kt— B6 

88 K<^Q4 
89Kt— Kt3 

90 Kt— E sq. ch. 

91 Kt— Kt 3 

92 K— Kt sq. 

93 K— E2 

94 Kt— E sq. ch. 
95Kt— Kt3 

96 K— Kt sq. 

97 K— E2 

98 Kir-B sq. ch. 
99Kt— Kt3 
lOOKi^Esq.ch. 
lOlKt— Kt3 

102 Kt— Q4 

103 Kt— Kt 3 

104 Kt— B sq. 
105Kt— Kt3 

106 Kt— E sq. 

107 PxP 

K— B5 
P— Kt3 
E— E3 
E— K3 • 
E^K5 
B^K7 
E-Q7 
E^K7 
E— K5 
E— B5 
K— Q6 
B^K5 
K— B7 
K-Q6 
K— B5 
E— K7 
E— Q7 

Br-K7 

B^K4 
B^K6 
E— Ksq. 
E^K3 
E— KB3 
E— K3 
E^K4 
E— B4 

Er-B7 

E^K7 
E— K8 
R-K5 
K— Q6 
K— B7 
K-Q8 
E— KB5 

Er-K5 

K— B7 
K— Q6 
K— K6 
Br-KB6 
K— Q6 
K— B7 
E— B8 
K— Q6 
E— Q8 
K— B5 
B^Q6 
E— Q7 
E-Q8 
P— Q5 
ExP 

.LIPSCHUTZ GAMES. 

259 

108 Kt— Kt 3 
109Kt— Esq. (/) 
llOKt— Kt3 " 
111 Kt— R sq. 
112Kt^Kt3 

113 Kt— Q2 ch. 

114 Kt— Kt 3 

115 Kf^R sq. 
116K— Kt3 
117 K— R2 
118K— Kt3 
119 K— R2 
120Kt— Kt3 

121 K^-R sq. 

122 Kt— Kt 3 

123 Kt— R sq. 
124Kt— Kt3 
125 Kt— R sq. 
126Kt^Kt3 
127PxP 

128 Kt— B sq. 

129 K— Kt sq. 

130 K— B2 
131Kt— Kt3ch. 

132 Kt— Q2 ch. 

133 K— Q sq. 

134 K— B2 

135 Kt— Kt 3 oh. 

R— Q8 
R-Q7 
R^K7 
R— KB7 
R— B5 
K— Q6 
R— B5 
R— B sq. 
R— B5 
R^KR5 
R— R7 
K— B5 
R^k7 
R— K4 
R— Q4 
R-Q7 
R-K7 
P— Kt4 
P— Kt5 
KxP 
R— K6 
K— B5 
K— Q5 
K— B5 
K— Kt5 
K— B4 
R-KR6 
K— B5 

136 Kt— Q2 ch. 

137 Kt— Kt sq. 

138 K— Kt3 

139 Kt— B3 
140K— Kt4 
141Kt— Kt5 
142 K— B4 
143K— Kt4 

144 Kt^B3 ch. 

145 K— B4 
146K— Kt4 

147 Kt— Q sq. 

148 Kt— K3 

149 K— B3 
150K— Kt4 

151 Kt— Q5 ch. 

152 Kt— K3 

153 K— B3 

154 Kt-B4 ch. 

155 Kt— Q2 

156 K^-B4 
157P— Kt3 
158Kfc— Kt2 
159 Kt— Q3 ch. 

Drawn by 

K— Q5 
R— R7 ch. 
K-Q6 
R^Rsq. 
R — Kt sq. ch. 
K— K5 
R — B sq. ch. 
K-Q4 
K— B3 

K— Kt 3 discL 
K— R3 
R— Qsq. 
R — Kt sq. ch. 
R— B sq. ch. 
K— Kt3 
K— R3 
R^Kt sq. ch. 
K— R4 
K— R5 
R— B sq 
K— Kt4 
K— B4 
R— KR sq 
K— Kt4 
decision of 

ch. 

the 

umpire after a count of fifty moves 
had taken place at the request of 
White. 

(c) Ijater on, when he has to make use of his KBP, he feels greatly embarrassed 
bv having this Pawn advanced. Again 9 Kt — Q5 was his best play, and if 9. . . 
P— R8; 10 P— KKt3, 10 KKt— B3; 11 P— KB8, with the superior game. 

(d) Also weak, for the simple reason that it is unnecessary, and, as a general rule, 
it is always better to reserve an unmoved wing Pawn until it can be dis- 
tinctly settled whether it can be made more useful on the 3d or on the 4th 
square. 

(e) This Rook was of more service on the Q file at once. A few moves later 
White sees the necessity of occupying that post and acknowledges the omission 
at the cost of time. 

(/■) An extraordinary error that costs the exchange and ought to have cost the 
game. 

(g) ^Vhite defends very well. He threatens now Kt — K5 ch. 

(A) Dl- judged. He ought to have tried to retain the two Rooks as long as 
possible, or at least until he could snatch an adverse Pawn or form a passed 
Pawn for himself. R — Kt 5 ch. , followed by moving the same R — B5, was his 
best plan. 

(i) White has very cleverly managed to keep a Pawn ahead, and, moreover, his 
own Pawns are compact, while the adverse ones are isolated. A draw is the 
natural result, and the rest of this long and weary game consists in futile 
efforts on the part of Black to force the game, while White has an easy task 
to repel the adverse plans. 

(,;■) A count of fifty moves was here claimed. 

260 

ufschOtz' games. 

Game No. 201. 

Played in tlie second ronnd, May 8th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

(d) 

White 
H. E. Bird. 

IP— KB4 
2P— K3 

3 KK^-B3 

4 P— QKt 3 
6B— Kt2 
6Kt— B3 
7 B-Q3 (a) 
80— O 
9 Q— K sq. 

10 P— QR4 

11 R-B sq, 
12PxKt 
13PxP 
UQ— Kt3 

15 Kt— Q sq. 

16 Kt^K5 

17 Ki^B2 

18 Er-Kt sq. 
19Kt(B2)— Kt4 

20Kt— B3 
21Q— R3 
22P— K4 
23BxKt(A) 
24P— K6 
25 Kt— B2 
26P— Kt4 

Black 
S. Lapscbtttz. 

P— Q4 
P— K3 
KKt— B3 
P— B4 
B— K2 
P— QR3 
P— QKt4 
Q— B2 (6) 
Kt-B3 
Kt— QKt 5(c) 
KtxB 
Q-Kt3 
PxP 
0—0 
R-Qsq. 
Kt^Ksq. 
R-R7 
P— B3 

Ki^Q3 (/) 
Kt— B4 
P— Kt 5 ig) 
Kt— Q5 
PxB 
P— B4 
B— Q2 
B— KBsq. 

27 K— R sq. 

28 E— KKt sq. 

29 PxP 
30Q— Kt3 
31Ki^R3 

32 Kt (B3)— Kt 5 

33 KtxB 
34QxR 
35B— Kt3 

36 QB— KKt sq. 
37Q— Kt4 
38P— R4 
39 Q— Kt 5 
40K— R2 

41 P— E5 

42 Q— B6 (m) 
43RxPch. 
44 Q— Q8 ch. 
45BxQch. 

46 P— R6 ch. 

47 Q— Kt 6 
48QxQP 

49 Q— Kt sq. 

50 Q— B5 
51K— Kt3 

52 Q— Q6 ch. 

53 K— B2 (n) 
54K— K3 

B— Ksq. 
B— Kt3 
RxP(i) 
R— Rsq. 
R (R sq.)- 

KBsq.O) 
BxKt 
RxKt(ife) 
Q-R3 
Q— R2 
Q— KB2 
R— Rsq. 

Br-R2 

Q— Ksq. 
Q-Q2(0 
B— B4 
Q— KB2 
QxR 
K— B2 
KxR 
K— B2 
R^K2 
R^Kt2 
K— K sq. 
K— Q2 
R— Kt sq. 
K— B sq. 

Rr-Kt2 

Resigns. 

(a) The Bishop is not well posted here, as be is liable to be driven back by the 

advance of the adverse Pawns on the Q side;. 
(6) P — Bo would have been also good play. 

(c) Well conceived. 

(d) If 11 P X P, 11 P— B5; 12 KtP x P, 12 P x P; 18 B— K4, 18 Kt x B; 14 Kt x Kt, 
14 Kt x P, and wins. 

(e) A fine idea. 

(/)If l»...PxKt; 20Kt— R6ch. draws at least at White's option, for 20... 
K— R sq. is his best answer (if 20 . . . K — B sq. ; 21 PxP disch. , with a winning 
attack), and then White may check alternately at B7 and R6, or he may pro- 
ceed with PxP after checking with the Knight at B7 and keep up a strong 
attack. 

UPSGHtaz' GAMES. 261 

iff) Not as good as blocking np the adverse Bishop by 21 . . . P— Q5, whereupon, if 

22 P— K4, 22 Kt— Q3; 28 P— K5, 28 Kt— B4; 24 P x P, 24 P x P, with the 

superior game.| 
(h) White has much improved his game. His Bishop was rather an encumbrance 

to him, and he has now exchanged it for an adverse active piece and formed 

an ugly doubled Pawn in the hostile centre, 
(t) Not well judged. B x P, followed by R — B2, was now his best play. 
U) Black proceeds with his attack, being evidently unaware of his own danser 

and imderrating the force of Whitens last capital move. Rr— B2 was still nis 

best play. 
{k) There was no other remedy, for White threatened Kt x RP, and if 88. . .Q— 

Kt2 or R2; 84 Ktx KP, with a winning game. 
(I) This is fatal. B — B4 and then moving the Queen alternately to B sq. and 

K sq. furnished a much better defence. 
(m) Mr. Bird makes, as usual, the most of a fine K side attack once he has it in 

his grasp. 
(n) With true insieht into the position, White enters on a march with his King 

right up to QB6, which cannot be prevented unless Black leaves one of his 

Pawns undefended, and in either case White wins with ease. 

Game No. 202. 

Played in the first round, March 29th. 

FRENCH DEFENCK 

White Black 5 P— K5 P— QB4 

S. lipschiitz. C. F. BuriUe. « ^-gf I'^^l 

IP— K4 P— K3 8 0—0 P— QE4 

2P— Q4 P— QKtS 9Kfr-Kt5(ci) P— KKt3(e) 

3B— Q3 B— Kt2 10 Q— B3 Kt— KR3 (/) 

4Kt— KB3(a) P— Q4(6) 11 Q— R3 Q— Kt3 

(a) An ordinarv position of the Queen^s Fianchetto having arisen, White ought to 

have played either the established P — KB8 at once or Kt — R8 at this juncture, 

reserving P— KB8. 
(6) Black could now proceed with P— KKt8, followed by P— KB4, which would 

also dislodge or exchange the adverse KP, with somewhat better effect for his 

position. 

(c) This advance is anyhow premature and generally compromising, for it gives 
the opponent first option of opening the game by P— QKt 8, while if the Pawn 
remained at QB4, Black had the choice of taking that initiative, it being 
generally inadvisable for White, in similar positions, to exchange the QBP 
when Black can retake with the Kt P. 

(d) Very well played. White perceives the point of attack with acute judgment. 

(e) Best If 9. . . P— KR8; 10 Q— R5, 10 P— KKt 3 (or 10. . .Q— K2; 11 Kt x BP, 
llQxKt; 13B— Kt6,andwins); llBxP, 11 PxB; 12QxPch., 12 K— Q2; 
18 Q X KP ch., 18 K— B2; 14 Kt— B7, and wins. 

(/) Inferior to Q — Q2, for it subjects him to great disadvantage in position. 

262 

LIPSCHfJTZ' GAMES. 

12 B— K3 (a) 

13 Kt— Q2 

14 QE— QB sq. 
15Q— R4 

16 QKt— B3 

17 Kt^R3 

18 Kt— Q2 

19 P— KB4 

20 Q— Kt 3 

21 Kt— B2 
22BxKt 

23 Q— R4 (//) 

24 Kt— R sq. 

25 Q— B2 
26Kt^Kt3 
27Kt^R6 
28Q— Kt3 
29KtxBch. 

Kt— Q2 
Q-B3 
Kt— Kt3 
Kt— Kt sq. 
P— KR3 
B— Kt2 
Kt— K2 
Kt— Q2 
R— KKt sq. 
Kt— KB4 
KtPxB 
Kt— B sq. 
Kt-Kt3 
Q~Q2 
Kt— R5 
Q-K2 
Kt— Kt3 
RxKt 

30 Kt— B3 

31 Q— R3 

32 Q— R5 

33 K— R sq. 

34 R— KKt sq. 

35 P— KKt4 

36 Kt— R4 
37RxP • 
38QxR 

39 Q— R3 

40 E— KKt sq. 
41KxR 
42Q— Kt3 

43 Q— K sq. 

44 B— B sq. 

45 P— QR3 
Black lost by 

K-Q2 
R— R sq. 
B— B3 
K— B2 
Q— B sq. 
Kt^K2 
PxP 
RxR 
E— Kt sq. 
B-Q2 
RxR cb. 
Q— Kt 2 clx. 
Q— R2 
Q— B7 
Q-Q6 

time limit. ( i ) 

(g) P — KKt 4, threatening Kt x RP, followcHi by P — Kt 5, was stronger here and 

for some more moves. 
(h) In support of his plan of bringing his Kt — KKt 3. which, as will be seen, he is 

aiming at, -Q — R3 was better, 
(f) The game was quite even, and it is certainly an unfortunate termination for 

Black to lose on the 45th move, and therefore only with one move short of the 

time limit. 

Game No. 203. 

Played in the second round, April 23(L 

BUY LOPEZ. 

White 

C. F. Burille. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4P-Q4 
5BxKt(a) 
6Kt— B3 

7 P— Q5 (b) 

8 P— KR3 (c) 
9B— K3 

10 0-0 
IIP— KKt 4 (rf) 

Black 

S. Lipachiitz. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P-Q3 
B-Q2 
BxB 
Kt— B3 
B— Q2 
B— K2 
0-0 
Kt— K sq. 
P— KKt3 

12 B— R6 

13 Kt— R2 
14BxKt 

15 Q-Q3 

16 P— B3 
17K— Kt2 

18 Kt-K2 

19 P— QB4 
20P— Kt3 

21 QR— Kt sq. 

22KtxB 

23KtPxP(«7) 

24 R^Kt sq. 

25 K— R sq. 

Kt— Kt2 
B— Kt4 
KxB 
P— KB4 
B— R3 (e) 
Q— R5 
R— B2 
QR— KB sq. 
K— Ktsq. (/•) 
B— B5 
PxKt 
PxP 

R— Kt2 ch. 
R— Kt6 

LIPSCHUTZ' GAMES. 263 

26P— B5 E^B3(/0 32 Q— QB2 ExEch. 

27BPxQP QxP(0 33ExE ExEch. 

28Q^Q2 PxKP 34KxE Q— Kt6ch. 

29PxBP P— K6 35Q— Kt2(jfc) P— K7 

30 Q— QKt 2 E (B3)— KKt 3 36 Eesigns. 

31 QB^QB sq. B— B sq. {j ) 

in) An unfavorable exchange, especially at such an early stage of the game. 

(b) Wliite's centre Pawns are now placed in such st manner that Black will have 

the initiative of opening the game either by the advance of the KBP to B4 or 

by P— QB3, while White. will have difficulties to make the corresponding BP 

available. 
{r) Of ho more use here than in most positions of the kind, and on the' contrary, 

as will be seen later on when White is compelled to advance the EBP, a 

dangerous hole is formed at his Kt 3. 
(r/) Making matters still worse on the K side, for Black had nothing to fear on 

that wing, whereas White only furnishes an additional mark for the hostile 

counter-attack initiated by Black^s reply. 

(e) Played with deep forethought. B — B5 at once seems to be gaining time, for 
he ha4 to adopt it later on the 21st move, but it would have been premature 
now as long as Black's King stood at Kt 2, for White could have answered 
Kt — K2, threatening KtxB, followed by Q — B3 ch., thus either compelling 
Black's Queen to keep guard at home or winning the QBP, which would have 
greatly discomforted the adverse Q side before Black could make any 
impression on the other wing. 

(f) Black makes his preparations beautifully for the coming attack. 
((/) The better plan was KP x P, followed by QRr— K sq. 

(70 More expeditious was 26... PxKP; 27 QxP, 27 B— KB4, winning the 

exchange, 
(t) Threatening a brilliant termination by Qx Kt ch., followed by R — R8 mate. 
(J) Unnecessary ; for he could have finished off by exchanging, as done one move 

later. 

(k) There was no help for it. If 35 K— B sq., 85 B— R6 ch., and wins. Or if 35 
K— R sq., 35 Q— K8 ch. ; 36 K— Kt 2, 36 Q— Q7 ch., and wins. 

Game No. 204. 
Played in the first round, April 12tli. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White Black 3 P— K5 (a) B— B4 

A "ti f\0 "D XT' 4. O 

S. Lipschutz. E. Delmar. g p ijgj p -g^o 

IP— K4 P— QB3 6KKt— B3 P— QB4 

2P— Q4 P— Q4 7P— B3 Kt— QB3 

(a) QKt— B3 is, we believe, White's best play here. 

264 

UPBOBtmz' OAIDBS. 

80—0 
9B— B2 

10 QKt— Q2 (6) 

11 R-K sq. 

12 Kt— B sq. 

13 K<r-K3 
UQxB 
16P— KKt4 
16 P— B5 (d) 
17PxP 

18 K— R sq. 
19KtxKt 
20 P— B6 
21B-K3 
22 R— KKt sq. 
23P— KR4 
24P— R6 
25RxR 

26 K— R2 

27 Q— Kt sq. 
28B— Q2 
29Ki^R4 
80K— R3 

P— B6 

K<r-R3 

P— Kt4 
B— K2 
Q— Kt3 
BxB(c) 
P— Kt3 
0—0—0 
KtPxP 
QR— Kt sq. ch. 
Kt-KKt5 
RxKt 
B— Bsq. 
R— Kt3 
Q— Kt2 
P— Kt5 
RxRck 
P— KR3 
Q-B3 
Q— R4 
Q— Kt4 
Q— Kt3 
P— R4 

31Kt-Kt6(e) 
32RPxP 
33P— Kt7 

84 Q— R7 

85 P X B queens 

36QxQ 
37R— Kt7 
88PxR 
39PxP 
40BxKtP(o) 
41K— R4 
42K— R5 
43K— Kt6 

44 B— K sq. 

45 K— B6 

46 K— B7 

47 P queens 

48 K— B8 
49KxKt 
60 K— B7 
51KxP 

PxKt 
Q-B2 
R— Ktsq. 
Q— B2 
oh. 
RxQ 
RxQ 
RxR(/) 
K1H-K2 
PxP 

Kt— Kt sq. 
K— Q2 
K— K sq. 
P— R4 
Kt— K2ch. 
K— Q2 
Ki^B4 
K1^R3 ch. 
KtxQ 
K— B3 
K— Kt4 
Resigns. 

(() 10 P — QKt 8 was the right move to give White the best of the game. 
Obviously, if then 10...P— Kt4; 11 P— QB4, and Black's chain of Pawns 
will be broken, with the much superior game for White on both wings. 

(c) The exchange being unnecessary, as there was nothing threatened, it could 
not be good either, as Black is afterward compelled to form a hole on the K 
side in order to stop the advance of the adverse Pawns. 

(d) White courageously goes on with his attack regardless of the exposed position 
of his King, and he is right in his estimate of the security of his position. 

(e) Quite a model of play of the modem style. As will be seen, the movements 
of the King were a necessary preparation for the ending and enabled White to 
win quicker. It should also be noticed that Black, being unable to make use 
of his Book, could not afford to open the QKt file by exchanging Pawns, for 
White would then have obtained an irresistible attack on that file. The con- 
sequence is that Black has to lose the QKtP after the exchange of the heavy- 
pieces. 

(/)A11 forced. If 87... R— Bsq.; 88 R— R7, followed by BxRP and P— B7, 

wins with ease. 
(ff) Of course, this is the deathblow to Black's game. 

UPSCHUTZ OAMES. 

265 

Game No. 205. 

Played in the second round, May 13th. 

ENGUSH OPENING. 

White 

£. Uelmar. 

IP— QB4 
2 QK^-B3 
3P— KKt3(a) 
4PxP 
5B— Kt2 
6P— Q3 
7 P— Q4 (b) 
8Kt— B3 
90— O 
lOQ— B2 

11 B^Q2 

12 Kt— Q sq. 

13 Kt— K3 
14QxKt 

15 Kt— B5 

16 KB— K sq. 

17 P— QI13 (d) . 

Black 

8. Lipschfitz. 

P— K3 
KKt~B3 
P-Q4 
PxP 
P— B3 
KB— QB4 
B— Q3 

B^Ksq. 
B— KKt5 
QKt-Q2 
Kt— K5 
KtxB 
B— R4 
B— Bsq. 
P— KR3 (c) 
Q-B3 

18Kt-K3 
19B— R3 
20B— B5 
21P— KKt4(e) 
22Q— Q3 
23BxB 

24 QR— Q sq. 

25 Kt— B sq. (g) 
26Kt— Kt3 

27 P— K4 
28RxP 

29 K<^K5 

30 R (Q sq.)— K 

31QxR(i-) 
32K<^B4 0*) 
33KtxQ 
34P— Kt3 

35 Kt (B4)— Q6 

36 P— QR4 

P— KKt4 
Q— Q sq. 
B— Kt2 
B— Kt3 
R^K5(/) 
PxB 
Kt~B sq. 
RxPch. 
R— B5 
PxP (A) 
Q-Q4 

R— Qsq. 

RxR 
QxP 
QxQ 
R— Q2 
P— Kt3 
P— B4 

Ktr-K3 

(a) The combination of the Fianchetto with this opening is at least an indifferent 

continuation, and we are inclined to think that it transfers the lead to the 

other side. 
(6) He thereby repudiates his previous move, which in reality was a good one 

according to modem principles, or at any rate much better than the one made 

now, as it creates trouble in the centre which is soon occupied by Black's 

pieces that cannot be easily dislodged, 
(e) Being safe on the K side against a Pawn attack, this move, with the object 

of avoiding an exchange of Queens that might be offered by Q — KtS, is 

justifiable. 
{d) There is no perceptible object pursued by this advance. K — B sq., intending 

to withdraw Kt — Kt sq. and then to play P — KB8, was more game, 
(e) Very weak. Again K — B sq. was preferable. 
(/) Indeed very smart and, of course, more than safe, for its aggressiveness 

against the Q centre and the K side is of a lasting character. Of course. White 

dare not capture the Rook on pain of his losing a piece by the reply PxB. 
(g) An oversight evidently, but his game was already inferior, as Black threatened 

Ktr— K8, followed by Kt— B5. 
(A) Still stronger was, we believe, 27. . .Q— B8; 28 R— KB, 28 Kt— K3, etc. 
(t) If 81 R X R, 81 B X Kt; 32 R x B, 32 Q x R, and wins. 
(j) No further comments are necessary. Black is two Pawns ahead and the 

exchange of Queens is forced. There are no features of great interest in the 

ending. 

266 

LIPSOHUTZ GAMES. 

37 K<^K8 

38 Kt (K4)— Q6 

39 P— R3 
40K— Kt2 

41 K— Kt sq. 

42 Kt— Kt 5 
43Kt(Kt5)— B7 
44 Kt— K6 cb. 
45RxKt 

46 Kt— B7 
47R-Q6 
48 Br— Q7 ch. 
49KtxP 

R— Q6 
Kt-B5 
KtxPcb. 
K^-B5 ch. 
K— B sq. 
P— R3 
B— Q5 
KtxKt 
RxP 
K— B2 
R— Kt7 
K— B3 
BxPch. 

50 K— R sq. 

51 Kt— B7 
52Kt-Kt5 
53 R^Q6 
54KtxB 
55RxQP 

56 K— Kt sq. 

57 R-Q sq. 

58 R— Kt sq. 

59 K— B sq. 
60RxP 

61 K— B2 

62 Resigns. 

P— Kt5 
B-Q5 
K— Kt4 
K— R5 
PxKt 
K— R6 
P— Kt6 
R— QR7 
RxP 
P— QKt4 
P— Kt7ch. 
R— R7 ch. 

Game No. 206. 

Played in the first round, April 8th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

Black 

S. Lipschfitz. 

G. H. D. Gos8ip. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 QKt-B3 

B B4 

3P— KB4 

P Q3 

4 Kt— B3 

B-KKt5 

6 Kt— QR4 (a) 

BxKt(6) 

6QxB 

PxP 

7KtxB 

PxKt 

8QxP 

KKt— B3 

9P Q3 

0-0 

10 B K2 

Kt— B3 

11 B K3 

Kl^Q5 

12 B— Q sq. (c) 

R— Ksq. 

13 0-0 

Q-Q3 

14 Q— B2 

15 B— Kt 5 

16 B— B4 

17 R— Kt sq. 

18 K— R sq. 

19 P— QR3 

20 P— K5 

21 PxKt 
22KBxP 
23Q— Kt3 
24BxPch. 

25 B— Q3 

26 B— KKt 5 
27Q— R4 
28B— Kt6 

White mates 

QR-Q sq. 
R— K3 
Q— Kt3 
R— Q2 
Q— R3 
P— B5 (d) 
PxP(e) 
PxP 
R— K7 
QxBP 
K— B sq, 
R— Ksq 
Q— Q3 
P— KB3 
Kt-K3 (g) 
in two moves. 

(/) 

(a) This is premature. Either P — KR3 or B - B4 is the right move here. 

(6) Black rectifies the opponent's shortcoming by still more premature play. 

PxP first would have made it very difficult, if not impossible, for White to 

recover the Pawn without serious inferiority of position. 

(c) With a more compact centre and two Bishops against two Knights, White can 
afford such retreating movements. For the ending especiafiy his game is 
much stronger on account of Black being saddled with an ugly doubled Pawn. 

(d) A ruinous error. He ought to have removed R (Q2)— K2, but his game was 
inferior anyhow. 

LIFSCH&rz' GAMES. 

267 

(e) Obviously, if the KKt move, White answers B — KKt 4, winning the exchan^, 
and if he meant to show further fight, the play in the text seemed to give him 
most opportunity for it. 

(/) If K X B, White wins the Rook by the answer Q— R8 ch. 

iff) His game was beyond redemption. 

Game No. 207. 

Played in the second round, April 26th. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

Black 

G. H. D. Gossip 8. Lipschtttz. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4Kt— B3 
6PxP 
6KtxP 
7 Kt-Q3 (a) 
8Q— B3 
9K^-B2 

10 P— QR3 

11 q—m (b) 
12Q— B4 
13QxKt 

14 K— Q sq. 

15 Q— B3 
16P— E3 

17 P— KKt 3 

18 P— KKt 4 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
KKt— B3 
PxP 
Q— Q5 
B— Kt3 
0-0 

ft— B3 
^-K4 
K<r-R4 (c) 
Kt— Kt3 
Q X Kt cL 
Kir-B5 (d) 
Q— R5 
Kt— Kt3 
Q— Qsq. 
Q-I15 

19 B— K2 
20Q— Kt2 
21 P— Q3 
22B— B4 
23Q— Kt3 
24 P— KE4 
26QxKt 

26 K— Q2 

27 Kfc— Q sq. 

28 P— B3 
29Q— B2 
30K— B2 
31P— Kt5 

32 P— Q4 

33 Kt^K3 
34B— Q3 
35QR— Q8q.(/) 
36 Kt— B5 
37P— Kt4(y) 
38RPxP 

39 R— R sq. 

Kt— K4 
B— K3 
QR— Q sq. 
Kfc— Kt3 
Q— K2 
KtxB 
B-Q6 
P— QB3 
B— Bsq. 
B— B3 
P— QKt3 (e) 
B— K3 
B— K4 
B— B2 
KR— K sq. 
P— QR4 
P— QKt4 
Q— B sq. 
PxP 
R— Rsq. 
RxR 

(a) This variation first occurred in a game between the editor and Mr. Max Jndd, 

played in 1888. 
(6) Q — K2 was now, we believe, his only good defence. 

(c) Much stronger was now QKt — Kt 5. 

(d) P — KB4 was more promising for his attack. 

(e) Probably both players were under pressure of time limit on the 30th move, or 
else both would not have overlooked that Black could here recover the Pawn 
by simply Q x P and remain with a patent superiority of position. 

(/) K — KB sq. or If— Kt sq. would have better supported his attack. 

(g) There was nothing particular to fear on that wing, and he might have gone on 

with his attack on the other side by P — R5. The exchanges that follow tend 

to produce a drawn position. 

268 

IJP80HUTZ GAMES. 

40RxR 
41RxR 

42 K— Kt sq. 

43 Q— QKt2 

44 P— B4 Qt) 

45 B— B2 
46PxB 
47 Q— R2 
48KxQ 
49K— Kt2 

{h) An oversight that throws away a Pawn. 

(i) Black might have qiade an effort now to win the game, considering that he 

had two Bishops, and he might have tried Q — KB stj., followed by P — KB8, 

without running any risk. By tlie move in ttie text, wliich leaves the parties 

with Bishops of opposite colors, a draw is declared. 
(^■)This clever move secures the draw in an easy manner. It would have been 

otherwise doubtful whether White conld draw if he had allowed Black to 

capture the two Pawns without forming doubled Pawns. 

R— Rsq. 

50B— K4 

P— B4 

QxR 

51 PxP 

BxP 

Q R6 

52 K— B3 

P— Kt3 

Q — R sq. 

63P-R5(y) 

PxRP 

PxP 

54KxP 

B K6 

BxKt(t) 

55P— Kt6 

RPxP 

B-Q3 

66 PxP 

P— B3 

QxQch. 

57 K— Q5 

BxP 

Drawn. 

K— B sq. 

Game No. 208. 

Played in the second round, May 16tli. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

Black 

S. Lipschlltz. 

G. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 QKt~B3 

QK<^B3 

3B— B4 

Kt B3 

4P Q3 

B— B4 

5P QR3 

P— Q3 

6Kt— R4 

B Kt3 

7KtxB 

RPxKt 

8P QB3 

B— Kt5(a) 

9P— B3 

B-R4 

10 Kt— K2 

P— KR3 

110-0 

P— KKt4 

12 B Kt3 

Q-K2 

13 B— B2 

Kt— Q sq. 

14Kt— Kt3 

B— Kt3 

15 Kt— B5 

BxKt 

16PxB 

Kt— R2 

17P— Q4 

P— KB3 

18 P— KB4 (6) 

Kt— B2 (c) 

19BPxP 
20PxP(rf) 
21B— Kt3 

22 Q— R5 

23 B— K3 

24 B— Q4 
25Q— R3 

26 BxKt 

27 QE^K sq. 
28Q— R5 

29 R— K3 

30 Q— K2 ie) 

31 BxP 

32 B— K6 
33P— QKt4(/) 
34PxQ 

35 K— B2 
36KxR 
37PxKtP 
38K— Q4 
39 K— B5 

QPxP 
Ktx:^ 
K— B sq. 
K— Kt2 
KR— Q sq. 
Q— K sq. 
P-QB4 
QxB 
Q— B2 
Kf^Bsq. 
P-B5 
Q— B4 
R— K sq. 
KtxB 
Kt— B5 
KtxQch. 
RxR 
KtxP 
RxP 

Kt— K7 ch. 
R— B6 ch. 

LIFSCHtTZ' GAMES. 

269 

40 K— Kt 5 

41 K— Kt4 

42 P— Kt 4 

43 R— Q sq. 
44K— B5 
45K— Q5 

46 R— QR sq. 

47 K— K4 
48R— R7 
49R— R8 
50PxP 
51R— KR8 
52P— R4 
53 K— B3 
54K— Kt4 
55 B^RT ch. 
56RxP 

Kt— Q5 ch. 
R— B3 
K— B2 
RxPch. 
R— B3 ch. 
Kt— K7 
Kt— Bo ch. 
K— K2 
R-B2 
P— R4 
KtxP 
Kt— B5 
R— B5ck 
R— B6 ch. 
R— KR6 
K— Q3 
RxPch. 

57 K— B3 

58 R^QR7 
59K— Kt3 

60 R— QR sq. 

61 R— K sq. 
62R— K2 

63 K— B3 

64 K— Kt 3 
65K— B2 
66R— K8 
67R— K4 

68 K— Kt sq. 

69 R— K sq. 

70 R— QKt sq. 

71 K— R sq. 

72 K— Kt sq. 

Kt— Q4 
R— B5 ch. 
RxP 
R— B5 
P— B4 
R-Kt5ch. 
R— QR5 
R— R6ch. 
P— Kt5 
P— B5 
R— R7ch. 
P— Kt6 
K1H-K6 
P— B6 
R— KR7 ch. 
P— B7 mate. 

(a) This and the next move are not good on general principles, and B — KS was 

superior. 
(6) Fine play which enables him to dissolve his doubled Pawn and altogether to 

free his game for the attack. 

(c) It 18...KtPxP; t9 BxP, and, of course, the Bishop cannot be taken on 
account of the rejoinder K — K sq. 

(d) Much stronger was 30 Q— B3, 20 P— B8; 21 B— K8, etc. 

(e) An extraordinary failure of judgment at a critical juncture, which tluxiws 
away a won game. The right play was 80 KR— K sq. , 80 R— Q2, best (if 80 . . . 
Q— B4ch.; 81 K— Rsq., 81 PxB; 82 R— K7ch., 82 K— Rsq.; 88 Q— B7, 
and wins); 81 R— R3, 31 PxB; 82QxPch., 82 K— B2; 38 Q— R.5 ch., 88 
K— Ktsq.; 84Q— RSch., 84 K— B2; 85R— R7ch., 85KtxR; 86QxKtch.. 
88 K— B sq.; 87 Q— R8 ch., followed by QxR, with a Pawn ahead and the 
8U[>erio|f game. 

(/) A sad error which settles his defeat, whereas 88 P x Kt, 38 R x P; 34 KR— -B8 
would most probably lead to a draw. The pame presents no further interest, 
as White now loses a piece in a simple position. 

Game No. 209. 

Played in the first round, April 15th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 

Black 

S. Lipschtttz. 

J. M. Hanham. 

1 P— K4 
2P— KB4 

P— K4 
B— B4 

3KKt— B3 
4Kt— B3 
5PxP 
6 KtxP 

P— Q3 
KKt— B3 (a) 
PxP 
Q— Q5 

(a) This loses a Pawn without sufficient attack for it. Once the above line of 

270 

LIFSCHUTZ OAHES. 

7 Kt— Q3 (b) 

B— Kt3(c) 

17 Q— Q sq. 

PxP 

8Q B3 

0—0{d) 

ISQKtxP 

RxKt(K5) 

9Kt— B2 

Kt-B3 

19KtxR(9) 

K^-K7 ch. 

lOB K2 

B Q2 

20 K— R sq. 

RxRch. 

IIP Q3 

Q-B4 

21QxR 

QxBP 

12 Q Kt3 

Kt— Q5 

22 Kt— Kt5 

B— B7 

ISB-Qsq. 

QR— K sq. 

23 B K3(/«) 

P— KR3 

14 0—0 

B Kt5(e) 

24QxB 

PxKt 

15BxB 

KtxB 

26 R— K sq. 

Resigns. 

16QxKt 

• P— KB4 (/) 

declining the Gambit has been adopted it seeins difficult at this juncture to 
find a satisfactory defence. 4...QKt — B3 is objectionable on account of 
5B — Kt5, and against 4...B — Kt5 White may proceed with o P — KR3 or 
5 B — B4 with advantage. 4 . . . Kt — Q2, as played by Mr. Hanham in the 
second round against the same opponent, seems, therefore, Black's best play at 
this juncture. 

(6) A line of play first adopted by the editor against Mr. Max Judd, and we con- 
sider it quite sound. 

(c) If 7. . .Kt X P; 8 Q— K2, 8 P— KB4; 9 Kt x B, 9 Q x Kt; 10 P— Q3, and wins. 

(rf)8...B— KKt5; 9 Q— B4, 9 Kt— B3; 10 P— KR3, 10 B— Q2 (or 10...B— R4: 
11 P— KKt4, 11 B— Kt3; 12 B— Kt2); 11 R— K2 would also leave White 
w^ith a Pawn plus and a safe game. 

(e) A miscalculation at least, in which Black overrates his attack. 

(/) He could do no better now ; for if Kt x P, then B— R6, etc. 

ig) Vigorous and correct. It is very rarely that a player may face several dis- 
covered checks and double checks with impunity, as is the case here, but still 
it required courage and cool calculation to verify that White ran no risk in 
apparently exposing himself thus. 

(h) The attack is completely broken and White's superiority of material is more 
than enough to win. 

Game No. 210. 

Played in the second round, May 15th. 

STONEWALL OPENING. 

White 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

S. Lipschfttz. 

1P-Q4 

P-Q4 

2 P— KB4 

P— K3 

3P— K3 

P— QB4 

4 P— QB3 

KK<r-B3 

5 KKt— B3 

Kt— B3 

6B K2 

P-QI13 

7 0-0 

B-Q3 

8B— Q2 
9 B— K sq. 

10 P— QR3 

11 QKt-Q2 

12 R— QB sq. 

13 K— R sq. 

14 B^R sq. 

15 R— KKt sq. 

16 Q— B2 

17 Kt— K5 

0—0 
P— QKt4 
Kt— K5 («) 
P— KB4 (h) 
P— B6 
P— QR4 
B— Q2 
P— Kt5 
Q-K2 
KR^Kt sq. (r) 

LIPSCH&rz' OAHES. 

271 

ISKtxB 
19P— Kt4 
20KtxKt 
21 Q— R4 (d) 
22RPxP 
23 Q— Q sq. 
24QxR 
25BxP 
26P— Kt5 
27PxB 
28B— Kt4 
29 Q-R3 (g) 
30Q— B5 

31 B^R sq. 

32 Q— R7 

QxKt 
Q-K2 
BPxKt 

-Kt2 

xP 
RxR(e) 
PxP 
B— Kt5 
BxB 

P-Kt3(/) 
K— B2 
Q-Q2 
Kt— K2 
Q— B3 
R— Kt2 

33Q— R5 
34Q— R8 

35 Q— R4 

36 Q— R7 
37Q— R8 
38Q— R7 
39BxPch. (i) 
40QxR 

41 R— K sq. 

42 K— Kt sq. 

43 K— R sq. 

44 K— Kt sq 

Q— Kt3 
R^Kt sq. 
Q— Kt7 
R-Kt2(A) 
R— Kt sq. 
Q— Kt3 
QxB 
Q-R6(/) 
Q— B6 ch. 
Q— Kt 5 ch. 
Q— B6 ch. 
Q— Kt 5 ch. 

And after some repetitions of 
moves the game was abandoned 
as drawn. 

(o) We prefer here Kt — K sq. or — Q3 so as to give White's crowded pieces little 
opportunity for exchanging and in order to prepare an early centre attack by 
P— KB8 and P— K4. 

(6) UnleHs he beat a retreat with the same Kt — B3, thus losing time, he had 
nothing better, and his K centre is now quite as weak as that of his opponent. 

(c) Much better was P x RP, followed by P— BS, with the view of entering with 
the QKt via QIU at Kt 6. 

(d) The plan pursued by White on this and the next two moves was unlikely to 
relieve his Q side, whilst P— QR4 instead greatly tended to neutralLae the 
adverse attack on that wing. 

(«) Much inferior to Kt— R4, followed by Kt— Kt«, which must have given Black 
undisputed possession of the QR file for his heavy pieces. 

(/) Feeble. 27 . . . R— R sq. ; 28 Q— Q sq. (or 28 9— Kt sq. , 28 Q— Kt 6, with the 
superior game), 28. . .Kt — K2 made his K side safe and gave him full com- 
mand on the other wing. 

(g) Excellent play which places the opponent on the defensive, for he must guard 
agaimst Q— -Q6, which could not be sufficiently parried by Kt — Q sq., as White 
would then gain a* powerful entrance on the K side by Q — K5. 

(h) If 3«. . .Q X P; 37 B X P ch., 87 K x B; 88 R— R6 ch., 88 K— B2; 89 R— KB6 ch., 
and wins. 

(t) Ingenious, as Black evidently dare not capture the Bishop with the King on 
account of the rejoinder R — R6, but he can do no more than draw for aU that. 

(j) The saving clause. 

272 

TJPSOBiSTz' OAKES. 

Game No. 211. 

Played in the second round, May 20tli. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

W/iite 
8. LipschUtz. 

IP— K4 

2 P— KB4 

3 KKt— B3 
4Kt— B3 
5B— B4 
6P— Q8 
7Q— K2 

8 P— B5 (6) 

9 B— K3 (d) 
lOO— O 

11 K— R sq. 
12B— QKt3 
13QR-K8q.(/) 
UPxPe. p. 
15Kt^KR4 

Black 
J. M. Hanham. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
Kfc— Q2 (a) 
KKt— B3 
P— QB3 
Q— K2 
P— KR3 (c) 
B— Kt5 
B— R4(e) 
B— B2 
Kt^B sq. 
P— KKt4 
PxP((7) 
B— K3 

16 Q— B3 

17P— Q4 

18P— Kt3 

19QxKt 

20 Kt— K2 

21QxB 

22 Kt— B4 (t) 

23Kt(R4)xP0') 
24 Q— K6 ch. 
26 Kt— R6 
26 Kt— B6 ch. 
27KxQ 
28B^B7 

29 QB^KB sq. 

30 Q— B6 

31 R — B8 ch 
moTe. 

B— Q sq. 
Kt— Kt6 
KtxB 
B— Kt3 
BxB 
PxP(/<) 
Q— K2 
KtxKt 
Kt— K2 
Q— Kt3 
QxKt(il-) 
R— QB sq. 
R^B2 
R— Q2 
R— Kt sq. 
and mates 

next 

(a) KKt— B8 is preferable. 

(6) The blocking plan with Pawns is generally a doubtful one to play in the early 
part of the game unless the chain of Pawns arranged with the view of fonn- 
mg a blockade, can be well preserved. Otherwise the opponent is likely to 
obtain first option of opening the game, with the additional advantage that be 
can prepare his attack against the stationary Pawns for a long time. 

(c) Guarding against the attack by KKt — Kt5. But better was B — Kt5, which 
equally prevented that sortie, for then Black could an.swer P — Q4. 

(d) B — Q2, with the view of O — 0-^0 and then fomiiug an attack on the 
K wing by the advance of Pawns on that side, was preferable. 

(e) B X Kt, followed by P — Q4, was now a good plan. 

(/) The K file was not so likely to be opened as the Q file, or perhaps even the 
QB file, in case Black advanced P — QKt 4. But anyhow it would have been 
better to reserve placing this Rook elsewhere, and P — Q4 instead might liave 
soon decided on which file the Rook could be most favorably posted. 

(g) Much better was Kt x P. 

(/)) Black has wriggled very well out of a confined and complicated position in 
which he had the worst of the game for a long time. Here he could have 
asserted his advantage by B x P, which won a clear Pawn without allowing 
the adversary any compensating counter-attack such as is afforded by the text 
move. 

(») Very well played and the beginning of a beautifully -conceived winning 
continuation. 

(J) Play of very high order. 

{k) There was no other defence. If 26. . .K — Q sq., White mates by Q — Q7, and 
if 26. . .K— B sq., 27 Kt— Q5 disch., and wins. 

UFSCHinZ OAME8. 

273 

Game No. 212. 

Played in the first rormd, March 27th. 

FRENCH DEFENCK 

White 

S. LipschUtz. 

IP— K4 
2P-Q4 

3 QKt-B3 

4 P— K6 

5 P— KB4 
6PxP 

7 K<^B3 (a) 

8B— Q3 

9Q— K2 
10 Kt— Q 8q. 
IIB— K3 
12KtxB 

13 0—0 

14 K— R sq. 

15 Q— B2 (c) 
16PxKt 
17Kt— Kt4 
18 QB— Q sq. 

Black 
M. Jndd. 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
KKt— B3 
KKt— Q2 
P-QB4 
BxP 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 (b) 
Q-B2 
Kt— Kt3 
BxB 
B— Q2 
Kt— Kt5 
Br— QB sq. 
KtxB 
0—0 
B— Kt4 
Kt— Q2 

19Q— B4 
20 KB— K sq. 
21R— K3 
22Q— R6 

23 Q— R6 

24 QR— K sq. (c) 

25 Kt— B2 
26Kt— Kt5 
27P— KKt4(/) 
28B^Kt3 

29 K— Kt sq. 
30PxP 
31P— Kt3 
32Q— R4 
33P— R4 
34RxB(A) 

35 Kt— Q sq. 

36 K— B2 

37 Q— R3 
38Q— Kt2 0') 
39BxQ 

P— KB3 
QR— Ksq. 
Q-Q sq. 
P— KKt3 
R— B2 (rf) 
P— B4 
R— Kt2 
K^-B sq. 
P-Q6 
Q— Q4 ch. 
R— Bsq. 
KPxP 
R— B7 
KB^QB2 
R— K7 («/) 
R— B8 ch. 
RxKtch. 
Q— R8 
BxP({) 
QxQch. 
BxR 

(a) White fails to gra-sp the real point of this attack. Q — KKt 4, as played by the 
editor against Sefiores Golniayo and Vazquez at Havana in 1888, is by far 
stronger than the move in the text. 

(6) With some reason, as he wishes to post his Q — B3 on the next move.. 

<c) White ought to have kept the QB file closed against the adversary, and P — 
QB8 was the right move for that purpose as well as for the reservation of a 
future attack by the advance of P — QB4, either after playing P— <JKt8 or 
even without such support, according to circumstances. 

(d) P — KB4 first was absolutely necessary. 

(e) For White might bave obtained now the superior game by 24 Px P, 24 Kt x P; 
25 Kt (Kt4)— K5, 25 R— Kt2; 26 KtH-Kt5, with a strong attack. 

(/) Black was well fortified on the K wing, and any attempt to storm his position 
on that side did not appear auspicious. But anyhow P— Q4 first, in order to 

Erevent Black's powerful reply, was a necessary safeguard to his own game 
efore entering on such a venture. 
(ff) A deep-sighted and fine combination is initiated herewith. 
(A) White was not bound to take, and he could retreat It — KBsq., but then his 
game could not hold out longer if Black first played B — K sq., followed bv 
KRr-B7. 
(t) Remarkably ingenious. 
O) M 88 R X B, 88 Q— Kt 8 ch. ; 89 K- 

-B3, 39 R X R ch., and mates next move. 

274 

lipsch6tz' oahes. 

40KxB E— QKt8 50K— Kt6 E— Ki5cL. 

41K— Q3(ifc) RxPch. 51 K— R7 K— B3 

42KxP P— KI13 52R-Q2 R— Kt4 

43P— K6 PxKt 53P— R4 P— B5 

44P— K7 R— Kt5ch. 54R-KKt2 RxP 

45K— B6 R— K5(/) 55KxP P— B6 

46 P X Kt queeninc ch. 66 R— B2 R— R6 

KxQ 57K— Kt6 K— B4 

47P— R5 R— P 58K— B4 K— Kt6 

48 RxP K— B2 59 Resigns. 

49R-Kt2 R— QR6 

(A) If 41 P— K6, 41 Rx P; 42 P— K7, 42 R— K6 ch., etc. 
[l) Cutting off the adversary's last hope. 

Game No. 218. 
Played in the second round, April 20th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
M. Judd. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
. 5 0—0 
6P-Q4 
7 R— K sq. 
SPxP 
9Q-Q3(6) 

10 Kt— B3 

11 K^-Q5 
12KtxBch. 

13 B— KKt 5 

14 QRr-Q sq. 

15 B— Kt 3 

16 B— B6 

17 Q— K4 (d) 
18Q— KR4 

19 Q— KKt 4 

20 B x Kt 

21 Kt-Q4 

22 Q— Kt 5 

(c) 

Bku-Jc 
S. Lipschtttz. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
KKt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 (a) 
Kt^Q3 
Kt— B4 
P— KKt3 
0—0 
Kt— Kt2 
QxKt 
Q— K sq. 
P— Kt4 
Kt— Q sq. 
QKt— K3 
R^Kt sq. 
Kt-KB4 
B— Kt2 
QPxB 
P— KR4 
K— R2 

23 Kt x Kt 
24R— K3 
25 R— KR3 if) 
26R— Q7 
27BxR(/) 

28 P— K6 

29 P— QB3 
30RxKBP 
31PxR 

32 R— K3 

33 P— KR4 
34Q-Q8 

35 Q— Q4 ch. 
36P— R3 

37 Q— K5 

38 Q— K8 ch. 
39RxQch. 
40R-K5 

41 P— KB4 

42 K— B2 
43K— K3 
44K— Q4 
45 P— KKt3 
46R-K8 
47 K— Q3 

KPxKt 
R— KKt sq. 
Q— KB sq. 
R— Kt2 
QxB 

R— KBsq. 
B— Bsq. 
RxR 
QxP 
B— K3 
K— Kt2 
P— R4 
K— Kt sq. 
P— R5 
B— Q4 
QxQ 
K— B2 
P— B3 
B— K3 
K— K2 
K-Q3 
B— B2 
B-Q4 

P— B4 ch. (gr) 
B— B5 ch. 

56KxP 

B-E7 

67R— Kt6 

K— B2 

58E E6 

B— Kt6 

59K— Kt4 

B-Q8 

60ExP 

BxE 

61BxB 

P— Kt4 

62EPxP 

Eesigns. 

LIPSCHUTZ' GAMES. 275 

48 K— K3 B— K3 

49 R— KB8 K— K2 

50 R— QKt 8 B— Q2 

51 R— Kt 6 B— K sq. 

52 K— Q3 K— Q sq. 
53R— Kt8ck K— K2 
54P— B4(/0 PxPch. 
55KxP B— B2ch. 

(a) Irregular and injudicious. P — QKt 4 is here the only move. 

(6) White skilfully forces a hole on the K side and pursues the attack with 
great energy. 

(c) B — B6 was of more importance to his attack. He threatened then Kt — Kt 5» 
followed by Q— KR8. 

{(f) Kt — Kt 5 was far better and would have much embarrassed the opponent at 
once. For he could not answer Kt — QB4 on account of the reply Q — Q5. Nor 
could he well exchange Knights, as his K side then became still more 
weakened. 

(€) Evidently threatening R x P ch. , after which mate in a few moves is unavoid- 
able. 

( /) \Miite's conduct of the atttack was of the highest order, but here a gem of a 
finish escapes his attention. 27 R x P ch., 27 P x R; 28 Q x P ch., 28 K x Kt; 

29 P — K6, would have won the Queen for two pieces, as Black had nothing 
better than 29 . . . P x P, and then R x R ch. would follow. If 29 . . . R x P ch. ; 

30 K— B sq., 30 R— Kt 2; 31 P x P ch., 31 Q x P; 32 R x Q, and wins. Or if 
29. . R— R2; 30 Q— Kt 5 ch., 30 R^Kt 2; 31 B x R, 81 Q x B; 32 P x P ch., 32 
K^R sq. (if 32. . .K— B sq.; 33 Q— K7 mate. Or if 32. . .K— R2; 33 P— B8, 
becoming a Knight, ch., followed by Q x Q mate); 33 Q— R5 ch., 33 Q— R2; 34 
P — B8 queening ch. , followed by Q x Q mate. 

(jy) The advance of this Pawn loosens his Q side, but he could not help that for 
long. If, for instance, 46 . . . B— K3; 47 R x B ch., 47 K x R; 48 K— B5, 48 K— 
Q2; 49 P— QB4, 49 PxP; 50 KxP, followed by Kt— Kt4, and wins. Or if 
46...B— Kt6; 47 R— KR8, followed by Rr-R7, and then R— KKt 7, after 
which he will either be able to force the exchange of Rook for Bishop, or 
advance the QBP and break the Pawns on the Q wing. 

(Ji) The winning coup which has been led up to with consummate skill. 

Game No. 214. 

Played in the first round, April 10th. 

PONZIANI OPENING. 

White Black 3 KKt— B3 QKt^B3 

N. MacLeod. S. Lipschiitz. 5 Kt^^ 0—04 

IP— K4 P— K4 6Q— R4 Kt— K2 

2P— QB3 P— Q4 7KtxKt KtxKt 

276 

LtPSCHtJTZ' OAKEa 

8 0—0 

9 R— K sq. 
10 B X Kt 
llQxQ 
12P— QKt4(6) 
A3RxP 

U R^K sq. 

15 K^-Q sq. 

16 R— B sq. 

17 B^Q sq. 
18B— Kt2 

19 Kt— R3 

20 QR— B sq. 

21 P— B3 
22P— R3 

B— QB4 (a) 
0-0 
QxB 
PxQ 
B-Q3 (c) 
B— KB4 
KR— K sq. 
B— B7 
B-Q6 (d) 
R— K7 . 
QR— K sq. 
QR— K3 
R— B3 
R^R3 
R— Kt3 

23P— Kt4 

24 K— R sq. 

25 R^K sq. 
26RxB 

27 P— QB4 

28 K^-B2 
29Kt— Q4 

30 K— Kt sq. 

31 R— K sq. 

32 K1^B5 

33 P— B4 

34 K^-K7 ch. 
35KtxKtPch. 
36PxB 

37 Resigns. 

B— R7 ch. 
R— B7 
B— K7 (e) 
RxR 
R^R3 
RxRP 
B— K4 ch. 
RxQP 
P— B3 
RxB 
P— Kt3 
K— B sq. 
PxKt 
PxP 

(a) Recommended by Uerr Neumann, and good enough to ensure the saperiority 
in the ending. However, we prefer the following line of play which does not 
involve the exchanging of Queens, and wins a piece in case White tries to gain 
theKP,e.g: 8. . .B— Q3; 9 B— K sq., 9 O— O— O; 10 RxP(or 10 BxKt?, 10 
B X B; 11 Q X RP, 11 B— QB4, and wins, for if Q— R4, Black answers B x P ch., 
and if 12 Q— R8 ch., 13 K— Q2 wins equally), 10. . .P— QR3; 11 Bx P, 11 Kt 
— Kt 5, and wins. 

(6) He only drives the Bishop to a better square, 12 RxP, 12 QB— KB4; 18 R — 
K5, gave him more prospects of extracting himself, though, no doubt, Block 
could win now by the answer 13. . .B — Q6. and if 14 Rx B, 14 R— K sq. If, 
however, 13. . .QR— K sq., then might follow 14 P— Q4, 14 Rx R; l.'J Px R, 1.5 
B— Qsq.; 16 Kt— Q2, 16 Rr-Q4; 17P— QKt4, 17 B— K2! (if 17. . .B— QKt8; 
18P— QB4, 18 RxP; 19 P— B5, 19Rr-K8ch.; 20Kt— Bsq., 20 B— Q6; 21 
B— Kt2, and wins); 18 P— QB4, 18RxP; 19 Kt— B8, etc. 

(c) B — QKt 3 would have led to a similar line of play as that adopted in the actual 
game, with a more decisive advantage in Black's favor. 

(d) Black has also gained a move by his fine manoeuvring in occupying this strong 
post which blocks all the adverse pieces. 

(e) Black has mastered the position most skilfully, and his victory is now assured. 

Game No. 215. 
Played in the second round, May 10th. 

JVlitte 
8. LipschUtz. 

1 P— K4 

2 QKt^B3 
3B— B4 

VIENNA OPENING. 

Black 

N. MacLeod. 

P— K4 
P— Q3 (a) 
KKi^B3 

4P-Q3 
6P— KB4 
6QBxP 
7KtH-B3 
8P— KR3 
9 Q— Q2 (c) 

B— K2 (6) 

PxP 

B— Kt5 

Kt^B3 

Kt-KB4 

BxKt 

UFSCH&rz' GAHES. 

277 

lOPxB 

11 K— Q sq. 

12 Q— K3 
ISQxKKt 
UQxQ 
15 Kt-Q5 
16P— B4 
17Kt— K3 
18B— Kt3 
19 P— QB3 
20PxKt 

21 K— K2 

22 P— Q4 
23P— Kt4 
24PxP 
26 K— Q3 

B— Il5ch. 
Kt— Q6 (d) 
KtxB(«') 
Q— B3 
BxQ 
B— Qsq. 
P— QB3 
P— QKt4 
P-QR4 (/) 
KtxB 
P— KKt3 
B— Kt3 
P-KR4 
K-Q2 
BxRP 
B— B2 

26P— Kt3 

27 KB— KKt sq. 

28 P— KB6 
29RxIl 
30PxQP 
SIR— R7 

32 Kt— Q6 

33 R— R2 (k) 
34P— B6 

36 R— KKt 2 
36PxP 
37RxP 
38R— R4 
39R— R8 
40 R— KB cli. 

KR— QKtsq. 
P-QB4 (g) 
RxR 
PxQP 
P— Kt4 
K— B sq. 
R— Kt2 
B— Q sq. 
K— Q2 
P— Kt6(t) 
PxP 
K— K3 
R— R2 
R-Q2 
Resigns. 

(a) Black is already at some disadvantage, owing to bis KB being confined. 

(6) B — K3 is now better. Tbe doubled Pawn that White could create would be 
compensated by the open KB file, and the probability that White would have 
to,aavauce his own KBP two squares sooner or later, thus enabling Black to 
dissolve that doubled Pawn. 

(c) B — K8 instead would have given White a stronger attack. If then 9. . .B — 
R5 ch. ; 10 K — Q3, whilst now we prefer tbe adverse game. 

(d) Kt — K4 was better, for White could not well take that Knight, as a hole 
would be formed at his KB4 which would be stronglv commanded by Black's 
minor pieces. If then 11 Q— K8, 11 P— QB3; 12 Kfi— QKt8, 18 Q— B8, with 
the superior game. 

(e) Black loses all his advantage now, and he has the inferior position for the 
ending, bis Pawns not being so compact as those of the opponent. Kt — K8 
was by far better. 

(/) B — Kt 8, threatening to win a piece by Kt x B, would have gained an import- 
ant move at least. 

(jT) The bole here formed makes his game soon untenable. B — Q sq., with the 
view of playing P — KKt 4 in reply to P — B3, was his best defence. 

(A) A quicker way of winning was 88 Kt— K7 ch., 83 K— Kt sq.; 84 Kt— B6, 34 
B— Kt sq. (or 84. . .K— Q2; 85 P— Q5, followed by R— KB8, with a winning 
game); 35 P— K5, 35 P x P; 86 P x P, 36 K— B8; 37 Kt x B, 87 R x Kt; 38 R x 
R, 88 K X R; 89 P— K6, 89 P x P; 40 P— B8, and wins. 

(0 His game becomes quite hopeless after this. K — K8, followed by B x P, gave 
him a better chance of prolonging the struggle. 

278 

UPSGHUTZ GAMES. 

Game No. 216. 

Played in the fire^t round, March 26th. 
QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

W/nfe 

D. M. Martinez. 

1P-Q4 
2P— K3 
3 KKt-B3 
4B— Q3 
5P— QKt3 
6B— Kt2 
7QKt-Q2 
8P— QB4 
9Q— K2 
10 Br— QB sq. 
110—0 
12PxQP 
13 Kt— K5 (6) 
14KtxKt(Q7) 
15BxP , 

16 Q— R5 

17 Kt— B3 
18KtxB 
19 P— B3 (c) 
20Q— R6 

21 B— Kt aq. 

22 KE^Q sq. 

23 Kt— B5 (d) 
24RxR 

Black 
8. Lipschtttz. 

P-Q4 
P— K3 
KKt— B3 
B— K2 (o) 
P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
QKt— Q2 
P-QB4 
R— QB sq. 
O— O 
Kt— K5 
KPxP 
PxP 
QxKt 
Q— K3 
B— KB3 
BxB 
Q— KB3 
P— KKt3 
Kt— B4 
B— R3 
Kt— K3 
RxR 
Q— Kt7 

25 Kt— K7 ch. 

26 R— K sq. 

27 P-,K4 

28 Q— R4 (e) 
29BxP 
30RxB 

31 K— B sq. 

32 Q— Kt 3 

33 Q— K5 cb. 

34 P— B4 

35 P— B5 
36RxQ 
37R— K7 
38R— Q7 

39 K— B2 

40 P— KKt 3 

41 R— Kt 7 
42RxKtP 

43 K— B3 

44 P— QKt 4 
45RxP 
46R— QR4 
47R^R6 
48K— K3 
49K— B4 

50 K— K5 

51 Resigns. 

K— R sq. 
B— Kt2 
Q-B6 
PxP 
BxB 
Q— B4 ch. 
P— KKt4(/) 
QxKt 
K— Kt sq. 
Q— B4 
QxQ 
K^-B5 
R— R sq. 
K— Kt2 
P— QR4 
Kt-R4 
R— QB sq. 
R^B7 ch. 
RxQRP 
PxP 
RxP 
Kt— B3 
P— R3 
P— Kt5 
R— B7 ch. 
R— K7 ch. 

(a) For the second player this is the best place for the Bishop in thin opening. 

Some masters adopt this development for the KB even when they have the 

first move. 
(6) White could break all attack against the K side by B — RO, forcing the 

exchange of the adverse KB that has such a bearing against the K wing. 

(c) His KP becomes weak and the source of trouble. No doubt he had to guard 
against RxR, followed by Q x BP ch. , but he could better do that by B x Kt. 
followed by Q — R8 and afterward Q— Kt 8. His Knight was then 'a strong 
fixture in the centre that would have kept a commanding position up to the 
ending. 

(d) An ill-advised manoeuvre that ultimately imperils the Knight. Anyhow, he 
ought to have exchanged Rooks first before adopting this sortie. 

(e) A fatal error. Q — B sq. was now his only move. 

(/) Black has cleverly played for winning the piece and now attains hLs obje<-t. 
The game is virtually over after this. 

LIPSCHXn'Z OA3IE8. 

279 

Game No. 217. 

Played in the second round, April 19th. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

White 
8. Lipschiltz. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3B— Kt6 

4EtxEt 

5P— Q3 

6 Q-B3 (c) 

7QxQ(a) 

8 0— O 

9B— QB4 
10 B— KKt 5(e) 
UKt— Q2 
12B— QKtS 
13B— KI14 
14 B— KKt 3 
15P— KE3 

Black 

D. M. Martinez. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— Q5 (a) 
PxKt 
Q— R5 (6) 
Q— B3 
KtxQ 
P— B3 
P— Q3 

Kt— Kt5(/) 
B— K3 
P— KR3 
P— KKt4 
K— Q2 
Kt— K4 

16P— KB4 PxP 

17RxP B— K2 

18Kt— KB3 Kt— Kt3 

19BxBch. PxB 

20 I^-KB7 P— K4 

21 QR— KB sq. K— K3 

22 R— B5 QR-KB sq. 

23 B— K sq. P— B4 

24 B— Q2 B— B3 
26 Kt— R2 P— Kt4 
26Kt— Kt4 B— Kt2 
27P— Kt3 P— KR4 
28 Kt— R2 KtH-K2 
29RxR RxR 
30 Kt— B3 

Black lost the game by exceeding 

the time limit (g) 

(a) A favorite defence of Mr. Bird. 

(6) The po-sition forms no exception from others in the opening when, as a rule, it 
is inadvisable to bring out the Queen early in the hostile camp. 

(c) White ought to have Castled and sooner or later he would gain a move with 
his Knight via Q3 — KB8, and in some contingencies he could advance P— 
KB4 before bringing the Knight out, with a good game in either case. 

(d) Q — K2 was preferable. 

(«) The better plan was, we believe, P— KB4, followed by Kt— Q2 and Kt— KB8. 
(/) B— K2 was better. 

(g) An unsatisfactory result of a well-fought game which now stood pretty even 
still. Black might have now dissolved the doubled Pawn by P — Q4. 

280 

MPSCHfrrz' GAMES. 

Game No. 218. 

Played in the first round, March 28th. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White 
J. Mason. 

IP— Q4 
2B— B4 
3P— K3 
4 KKt— B3 
6B— Q3 

6 QK1^Q2 

7 0—0 
8Kt— K5 
9KtxKt 

lOB— K5 
11 P— QB3 
12Q— R5 
13 Q— K2 
14B— B2 
15B-KKt3 

16 Kt— B3 

17 Kt— K5 

18 P— KB3 

19 P— K4 (c) 
20B— B2 
21PxP 
22KB^K8q. 
23B— QR4 
24Q— Q2 
25QxP(/) 
26B— B2 
27Q— Q2 
28PxKt 
29B— Q4 
30ExR 

Black 
S. Lipschtltz. 

P-Q4 
P— K3 (a) 
KKt— B3 
P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
QKt— Q2 
B— K2 
0—0 
QxKt 
P— QB4 
Kl^Ksq. 
P— Kt3 
P— Bo 
P— B3 
P— KB4 (h) 
B— Qsq. 
Q— Kt2 
B— B2 
P— B5 
Kt— B3 (d) 
PxP 

QR— K sq. 
E^K2 
P— QR3 (e) 
P— QKt4 
Kt— Q2 
KtxKt 
RxP 
RxEch. 
Q— B2 

31Q— R6 
32Q— R4 
33 K— B aq. 
34KxR 

36 Q— Q8 cL. 
36QxQcli. 

37 P— KR4 
38B— B2 
39 P— R5 
40PxP 

41 B— QB5 (g) 

42 K— B2 
43BxB 

44 P— KKt 3 
45PxP 
46B— K3 

47 B— <J4 ch. 

48 K— K3 

49 B— Kt 6 
50K— K2 
51B— K3 
52 P— R3 
53B— Q2 
54 B— K sq. 
55B— Q2 

56 B— K3 

57 K— Q2 

58 P— R4 

59 B— Kt 6 
60PxP 
61BxP 
62 B— B7 

B— B5 
Er-Ksq. 
RxRch. 
B— Q3 
Q— B sq. 
KxQ 

B— Kt 6 ch. 
B— K4 
K— Kt2 
PxP 
B— B sq. 
B— B4 
PxB 
P— B5 (A) 
BxP 
B-Q3 
K— Kt3 
K— B4 
B— R7 
B— B5 
B— K4 
B-Q3 
B— B4 
B-Q3 
B— B4 
B-Q3 
P— R4 
PxP 
P— R6 
BxP 
B— B4 

Drawn. 

(a) P — QB4 is superior. 

(6; We prefer Black's development after the eai-ly struggle for position, but he 

weakens his centre here and forms a hole at his K4 quite unnece.ssarily. 

This neutralizes the advantage he had gained on the Q side, whereas, after 

P— QKt 4 instead, his attack on the Q wing had to be minded first by the 

opponent. 
(c) Premature. He ought to have played Q — Q2 first before advancing this Pawn. 
((/) We see no reason for Black not gaining a Pawn by 20. . .B x Kt; 31 PxB, 21 

Q X P; 22 B— Q4, 22 Q— B2, with a safe game. 
(e) After this his game becomes inferior. Kt— R4 first was his best play. 

UPSCHUTZ GA1CE8. 

281 

if) Still stronger was 25 B— B6, and whether Black then exchanged Knight or 
Bishop or retreated B — B sq., White was bound to increase his advantage. 

ig) In order to prevent the strong adverse advance of P — Kt 5. 

(h) Black has well calculated that this leads to a draw. As will be seen, he holds 
the adverse King aloof from the centre by the help of his Bishop, which he is 
careful not to exchange, and neither side can enter the other game. 

Game No. 219. 

Played in the second round, April 22d. 

FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 
8. Lipschiitz. 

IP— K4 

2P— Q4 

3QKt— B3 

4P— K5 

5P— B4 

6PxP 

7K1^B3 

8B— Q3 

9P— QR3 
lOP— QKt4(a) 
11 Kt— KKt5(6) 
12Q— R5 
13 Kt— Q sq. 
14B— K3 
15BxB 

Black 
J. Mason. 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
KKt— B3 
KKt— Q2 
P-QB4 
QKt— B3 
BxP 
P— QR3 
P— QKt4 
B— E2 
Kt— B sq. 
Q-K2 
B— Kt2 
P— KR3 
RxB 

16 0—0 
17Q— R3 

18 Kt^B3 

19 Kt-K3 

20 QR— K sq. 
21Kt— Kt4 
22Kt— R4 
23 Kt— B6 ch. 
24K1^B3 
26Q— R4 
26QxBP 
27Kt— Q4 
28Kt— Kt3(/) 
29Kt— B5 
30PxR 

31 K— R sq. 

32 R— R sq. 

33 Q— B sq. 

P— Kt3(c) 
B— B sq. (d) 
Kt— Q2 
R-B2 
Kt— Kt3 
B— Kt2 
P— Kt4 
K— Q sq. 
PxP 
K— B sq. 
Kt— Q sq. 
Kt^B5 (e) 
KtxRP 
BxKt(sr) 
QxPch. 
B— B3 (A) 
B— Kt2 
Kt— B5 

(a) White's QBP, as well as his QRP, is here weakened and holes are formed on 

the Q side that afterward cause much trouble. 
(6) The attack on the K side here commenced makes no serious impression, 
(c) Not a good move nor necessary. Sooner or later White would have been 

bound to withdraw the Queen from her present post where she could do no 

good. 
{d) Also useless. Kt — Q2 at once was preferable. 
(«) Black has extricated himself from his difficulties and assumes the attack on the 

weakest adverse point. His mauceuvring for that object was excellently 

devised, 
(y) It was hardly advisable to give up the Pawn, and B — R sq. was his best move. 
(g) There was no necessity for this doubtful sacrifice. 29. . .P — QR4; 80 Kt x B, 

80 Kt X Kt; 81 P X P, 81 Kt x P were good enough to maintain the Pawn, with 

the superior game. 
(A) Loss of time. 

y 

282 

LIPSCHUTZ GAMES. 

34BxKt(t') 
35 Q— B4 
36I^-B2 

37 Br-Q sq. 

38 Kt— Q7 

39 Q— K3 
40Kt— B6 

41 P— B3 

42 E (B2)— Q2 

43 E^Q6 

44 K— Kt sq, 
45ExEch. 

46 P— E3 

47 K— E2 
48P— Kt3 
49P— E4 

50 E^KB sq. 
51QxEP 
52 Q— B4 
63 Q— Q2 
54PxP 
55P— E5 
56 P— E6 
57QxQ 
58P— E7 

QPxB 
Q— B3 
Q— B4 
P-QE4 
Q— B2 
B— B3 
P-E5(./) 
Kt— Kt2 
Kt— B4 
Kt^Q6 
E— Qsq. 
QxE 
Q— B sq. 
Q— Kt2 
K— Kt2 
Q— B sq. 
Q— B4 (k) 
KtxP 
Kt— Q6 
P— Kt5(0 
Q— Q5 
P— E6 
Q— Kt7 
PxQ 
Kt— B8 

S9 P — E8 queeuinc 

P— Kt 8 queen- 
ing 
60Kt— K4(»») QxKt 

Position after White's 60tli niov« 

K1^K4 

Black — J. Mason. 

White — S. Lipschiitz. 

eiExPch. K— Kt3(K.) 

62 Q — Q8 ch., and mates nezj; 
move. 

(t) Tliis opens the long diagonal for the adverse QB. Q — B4 was superior. 

(J) White's clever answer at once demonstrates the weakness of this. H — Kt2, 

with the view of advancing P— QKt 4, was better. 
(A) After a long, hard struggle the crisis has arrived. Black was bound to provide 

against the threatened Kt — K4, but Kt— B4 wa.s better for the purpose. His 

game is greatly imperilled by abandoning the KKP. 
(I) Black finds himself one move short in bis combination when his plan comes 

finally into effect. 
(m)Mo8t powerful and beautiful, and no doubt the outcome of a previously 

worked-out deep combination. See diagram. 
(») If 61 . . .K— R8; 62 Q— Rsq. ch., 62 K— Kt4; 63 Q— R5 ch., 63 K— B5; 64 R-^ 

B4, and wins. 

UPSCHUTZ' GAMES. 

283 

Game No. 220. 

Played in the first round, March 25th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

Black 

S. Lipschiitz. 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

KKt^B3 

3P— B4 

P-Q4 

4PxKP 

KtxP 

5Q B3 
6KtPxKt 

KtxKt 

B— K3 

7P— Q4 

P QB4 

8 E— Kt sq. 

Q-B2 

9B— Kt5ch. 

Kt— B3 

10 Kt— K« 

0-0-0 (a) 

110—0 

B-K2 

12B-K3 

P— KR4 

13Kt— B4 

B— Kt4(?>) 

UKtxB 

BxBch. 

15QxB 

16BxKt 

17B^B7 

18 QB^KB sq. 

19Q— Kt5 

20PxP 

21RxE 

22 R— B sq. (d) 

23 Q— K7 

24 P— KR3 
26 K— R2 
26QxPch. 
27B^B3 
28Q— B4 

29 Q— B2 ch. (a) 

30 Q— QB5 

PxKt 
QxB 
R^Q2 
KR— Q sq. 
PxP 
RxR 
QxP(c) 
Q— R2 
Q— R3 
P— R5 
Q— K6 (e) 
B-Q2(/) 
Q-K8 
K— B2 
K— Q sq. (/*) 
Resigns, (t) 

(a) Black treats this variation in an original way that seems to lead to an early 

equalization. 
(6) Best. If 18. . .B— Kt5; 14 KtxQP, etc. 
(c) The game was still even, and a draw was almost declared by 21. . .Q — B6, 

after which the most probable continuation was 23 Q — B4, 22 Q — K8 ch. ; 28 

Q— B sq., 28 Q— K6 ch. ; 24 Q— B2, 24 Q— B8 ch., and draws. The text move 

loses. 
((f) This is a coup de repoa of the kind that, in our opinion, denotes greater 

mastery than the conception of brilliant terminations. Such a winning retreat 

with its consequences in actual play alone conld not be easily conceived nor 
anticipated by the opponent Black's game is now absolutely lost, 
(e) Black can only wait for his doom. If 25 . . . R^Q2 ; 26 Q— B8 ch. , 26 I^-Q sq. ; 

27 Q— B5 ch., 27 K— Kt sq.; 28 B^B7, 28 R-QB sq.; 29 Q— Q6 ch., 29 K— 

R sq.; 80 R— B8, and wins. 
(/)If K — Kt sq.. White wins easily bj' Q — B7, followed by the advance of 

the KP. 
(g) The finish may be called artistic and .scientific as well. 
(h)l{ 29...K— Kt8; 80 Q— B5 ch., followed by R— QR3 ch., and mate next 

move. 
(«■) Unless he gives up the Queen by Q — Kt6 ch., 80. . .B^K2 is the only move to 

delay mate, and tnen White proceeds with R — B8 ch., followed by Q — Q6 ch. 

284 

LIPSCHUTZ' GAMES. 

Game No. 221. 

Played in the second ronnd, April 18tli. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

Wkife 
W. H. K. Pollock. 

t 

IP— K4 

2 KKt^BS 

3B— Kt5 

4P— C 

6 0- 

6K<r-B3 

7B— K3 

8Q— K2 

9BxKt 
lOPxP 
11 P— KR3 
12QxB 
13P— R3 
14 QR-Q sq. 
15Er-Q3 
16 B— B sq. 
17P— QKt3 

18 P— QR4 

19 Kt— Q sq. 

20 E^K sq. 

21 Kt^K3 

22 Kt— B5 

23 Q— Kt4 
24R-Kt3(c) 
26PxQ 
26B— Q2 
27R— Q3 
28B— B3 
29KtxB(/) 

30 P— Kt3 

31 KIU-Q sq. 

32 P— B3 
33QI^-Q2 
34B— Kt2 
35 P— KB4 
36R-K2 
37B— R3 

38 R (K2)— Q2 

Black 
S. Lipsclitttz. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— Q3 
B— Q2 
B— K2 
Ki^B3 
0—0 

B— KKt5(«) 
PxB 
PxP 
BxKt 
Q— Q3 
"I— K3 

-QR4 
QB— Kt sq. 
Kt— K sq. (6) 
B— Q3 
Kt^BS 
K— Kt 5 (c) 
R(Kt5)— Kt 
^ ^^sq. (d) 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— B4 
Q— Kt3 
QxQ 
Kt— K3 
R— Rsq. 
KR— Qsq. 
P— B3 
PxKt 
K— B2 
K— K2 
Kt^B4 
K— K3 
Kt— Kt2 
Kt— B4 
K— K2 
Kt-K3 
P— QB4 

39R^B2 

40 KR— KB sq. 

41 B— B sq. 
42P— Kt5 
43PxKtP 
44P— KKt4 
45B— Q2 
46P— Kt6(o) 
47P— Kt5 
48PxP 
49RxR 
50P— Kt7 

61 K— B2 

52 K— K3 

53 K— Q3 
54K— B4 
56K— Kt5 
66K— Kt6 
67 K— Kt7 
58BxP 
59 K— B8 
60B— Q8 
eiPxPch. 

62 R— QKt sq. 

63 P— R5 
64K— B7 
65KxR 
66 K— B7 
67K— Kt6 
68RxKt 
69K— Kt5 

70 R— Kt sq. 

71 R— Q sq. ch. 

72 K— B4 

73 R— KR sq. 

74 K— B3 

75 R^R3 ch. 

76 R^R2 ch. 

77 R— R sq, ch. 

78 K— Q2 

79 R— K sq. 
SORxPcL 

Kt^Q5 
Kt-B3 
P— KR3 
RPxP 
R^KB sq. 
K— K3 
R-B2 

R (B2)— B sq. 
Kt^K2 
RxP 
PxR 
K— B2 
KxP 
K— B2 
K— K3 
Kt— B3 
Kl^Q5 ch. 
KtxBP 
R— KKtsq. 
R^Kt6 (A) 
K1^Q5 
P— B4 
KtxP 
Kt— Q5 
R^Kt sq. (0 
RxBO') 
Kt— B3 ch. 
KtxP 
KtxP 
P— K5 
K— Q4 
P— K6 
K— K5 
P— K7 
K— K6 
P-Q4 
K— B7 
K— B8 (*) 
K— B7 
K— B6 
K— K5 
K— Q5 

LIPSCHUTZ' GAMES. 285 

81R-R2 K— B6 84 K— Q3 K— Kt4 

82R— R4ch. P— Q5 86 R— B« K— B3 

83R— R5 K— Kt5 86 K— B4 B^signs. 

(a)Black'S defence has kept the game quite even up to this, which is disad- 
vantageous to his Q side. 8. . .R — K sq., and if 9 QR — Q sq., 9 (^ — B sq. 
would have left the position still well balanced. 

(b) This retreat loses time, for he cannot afford to open the game by P — KB4, 
which, no doubt, was intended to be prepared by this move, as this plan would 
leave his KP isolated. 

KC) Again a lost mov^e, for he has immediately to retreat in order to guard against 
the loss of a valuable Pawn by B — Q2. 

id) A little better was perhaps 20. . .R^Rsq.; 21 B— Q2, 21 R(Kt5)— Ktsq., etc., 
but not 21 . . . R— Q5, on account of 22 R x R, 22 P x R; 23 P— -K5, 23 B x P; 
24 B— B4, 24 Kt— Q2; 25 Bx B, 25 Kt x B; 26 Q— K4, and wins. 

(e) White has obtained the superior position on both wings, but he overlooks here 
a plan which we believe was quite decisive. R — QB3, threatening accord- 
ingly B — R3 or R — B4, followed by B — K8, must have soon gained a valuable 
Pawn that would have been sufficient to give White a winning game. 

(/) No necessity for this, and it could do no good either to undouble the adverse 
Pawns and to strengthen the hostile centre. The right play was P — KB3, 
with the view of mancBUvring his Knight via K3 — QB4. 

(^) White has kept up a spirited attack very skilfully., but he goes too far with the 
same in virtually sacrificing this Pawn by advancing it thus. 

(h) Black in turn had now a won game, but 58. . .Kt — Q5; 59 R — QKt sq. (if 59 
P— Kt4, 59Kt— Kt6, etc.), 59...R— Kt6; 60 P— Kt4, 60Kt— Kt6; 61 K— 
R6, 61 P— B5, was his best plan ; for if now, for instance, 62 B— Kt6, 62 P 
— B6; 63 RxKt, 63 P— B7, and wins. The play in the text gives the 
opponent an opportunity for a highly ingenious counter-attack that still 
keeps Black^s King in jeopardy, though forces are already much reduced. 

(i) With this his winning prospects are altogether abandoned, while R — Kt2, 
followed accordingly by Kt — B3 or — Kt 4, made it still difficult, if not impos- 
sible, for White to escape with a draw. 

(J) This involves also the sacrifice of the Knight within a few moves, leaving 
Black with three Pawns for the Rook. But the Pawns are not advanced well 
enough to secure victory, and a draw ought to have been the legitimate result. 

(A^) Black, most injudiciously, is not satisfied with a draw which he could easily 
secure by K — K3, and he has to bear the usual penalty for attempting to win a 
game drawn by its nature, for after the opponent's reply his own game can no 
more be saved. 

286 

UFSCHtfTZ GAMES. 

Game No. 

Played in the first round, April 2d. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
J. \V. Showalter. 

1P^K4 

2KKt--B3 

3B— Kt6 

4P— Q4 

5BxKt 

6 Kt— B3 

7Q— K2 

8B— Kt5 

9BxKt 
10 P— Q5 (6) 
llQKt— Kt6 
12Q— B4 

13 K<H-B3 

14 0—0 
15PxP 

16 QBr-Q sq. 

17 Kt^K2 

18 Q— B3 
19P— QKt3 
20KtxP(rf) 
21QxKP 
22PxP 

23 Kt^B4 

24 KEU-K sq. 
25BxQ 
2611— B5 
27P— KKt4 

28 Kt— Kt 6 

29 P— KB3 ig) 

30 R— K sq. 
31Er-B4 

32 R (B4)— K4 

33 P— QB4 
34P— B4 

35 Kt— K5 ch. 

Black 
S. Lipschiitz. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P-Q3 
B-Q2 
BxB 
Kt— B3 (a) 
Q-K2 
P— KR3 
QxB 
B-Q2 
Q— Qsq 
P— QB3 
B— K2 
0-0 
PxP 
Q— Kt3 
B— K3 (c) 
QR— Kt sq. 
P— KB4 
PxKt(e) 
K-B2 if) 
B— B sq. 
Q— Kt4 
QxQ 
B— B3 
R— Kt3 
R— Ksq. 
R^K5 
R^Q5 (//) 

R— Qsq. 
B— R3 
R(Kt3)— Kt 

sq. (i) 
B— Kt2 
P— B4 
K— Kt sq. 

36 R (K4)— K2 

37 P— KR3 
•38Kt^Kt6 
39RxR 

40 K— B2 

41 K«^K5 ch. 

42 K— Kt 3 

43 P— KR4 
44R— Q2 
45RxRch. 
46Kt-B6(0 
47P— Kt5 
48PxB 
49P— R3 

50 P— Kt 4 

51 PxP 

52 Ki^KS («) 

53 P— R5 (o) 
54K— B3 

55 K— K3 

56 K— Q4 

57 K— K3 

58 Kt-Q3 

59 Kt— B5 
60KtxP 
61P— Kt5ch. 
62 K— Q4 
63Kt— Kt4 

64 Kt— Q5 ch. 

65 Kt— B3 

66 P— QB5 

67 P— KB5 

68 P— B6 ch. 
69P— Kt6 

70 Kt— K4 

71 P— B7 ch. 

72 K— B5 

(A-) 

R— Ksq. (/) 
QR— Q sq. 
RxR 
K— B2 
R— Ksq. 
K— Kt sq. 
P— R3 
B— Bsq. 
R — Q sq. 
BxR 
B— B3 
K— B2 (w) 
KxP 
BxP 
PxP 
B— Q2 
B— Bsq. 
K— K3 
B— Kt2ch. 
K— Q3 
B— Kt7 
B— Kt2 . 
B— B sq. 
K— B3 
B— Kt5 
K— Kt3 
BxP 
B— K7 
K— Kt2 
B— B8 
P— R4 
P— R5 
K— Kt sq. 
P— R6 
P— R7 
K— Kt2 
B— R3 {p) 

Drawn by matual consent 

(a) P — KB8 is the besst defence at this juncture. 

(6) 'White could now obtain a strong advantage by 10 Q — B4 first. 

((•) 17...QxKtP; 18 E— Ktsq., 18 Q-R6; 19 R— Kt7, 19 KR— Q sq. would 

UPSCHUTZ' GAMES. 287 

have caused a cumbei'some defence for some time, but we believe the extra 

Pawn was worth that trouble. 
(//) This dashing sacrifice of a piece for three Pawns keeps the attack in hand. for 

some time, but as the majority of Pawns is separated on two wings, the 

advantage of material is on the side of Black, espiecialiy as the latter has two 

Bishops for the ending, 
(e) If 20. . .B— B3; 21 Kt— QB4, and White escapes with a Pawn ahead. 
(/) Better still was, we believe, 21. . .Rr-B3; 22 Kt— B4 (if 22 Px P, 22 B— B2; 

23QxB, 23 R— K sq., etc.), 22...K— B2; 28KtxB, 23RxKt; 24QxKBP 

oh. , 24 R — B3, having exchanged the Knight and keeping up an attack on the 

open KB file. 
ifj) P— KR3 was better. 
Oi) 29. . .B— Q5 ch.; 30 K— R sq., 30 Rx KKtP; 31 Kt— K5 ch., 31 Bx Kt; 32 P 

X R, 32 B — B2 would have soon transferred the attack to Black. 
(0 P — QB4 first, with reservation of option to double the Rooks on the Q file, 

was superior. 
(J) It was certainly of advantage to drive off one of the adverse Rooks from the 

K file by B— R5. 
{k) Careless play. R — Q sq. was now his best. 
(/) White's play all along since he sacrificed the piece is highly praiseworthy, 

considering the dif^culty of his position, and he now emanates with a won 

game by this adroit stroke, 
(w) Evidently best. If 47. . .B — Kt2; 48 Kt — R5, and otherwise he cannot move 

the KB without its being captured or ceasing to guard against Kt — K7 ch., 

winning the other Bishop. 
ill) Kt — Q4 was more confining for the adverse King and Bishop, 
(o) Virtually the cause of White's failure to win. The advance of this Pawn 

injured his prospects of success, for the Pawn is afterward liable to attack and 

capture from the hostile Bishop, and, moreover, it now blocks a square which 

eventually might have been at least threatened to be occupied by White's 

Kinjf, and then Black would be compelled to play P— KKt 3, whereupon the 

RP could push on to Ii5, forcing a way for the winning access of his King. 
(jp) Black's play against heavy odds has been remarkably clever and to the point, 

and he now makes his escape from a perilous position with a draw. 

Game No. 223. 
Played in the second round, April 29th. 

CENTRE GAMBIT. 

Wliite Block 3QxP QKt— B3 

8.Lipschatz. . J. W. Showalter. \%^^if |7?|f 

IP— K4 P— K4 6Kl^B3(c) B— K2 

aP— Q4 PxP 7B— Q3 0—0 

(a) This way of opening has been brought into favor by Wilfried Paulsen. 

if>) P— -KKt3, followed by B — Kt2, which was first adopted by Winawer, is, we 

believe, the most satisfactory line of defence, 
(c) We think that the preparation by B— Q2 for O— O—O is more in order, 

288 

LIPSCHtrz' GAMES. 

8 0—0 

9Q— K2 
10 Kt X Kt 
llKt— Q5 
12 B— Q2 (d!) 
13PxP 
WQxKt 
15Q— B4 
16P— KKt3(6) 
17KtxB 

18 B— B3 

19 P— KB3 (f) 
20R— B2 

21 QIU-K sq. 
22KR— K2 
23B— K7 
24R(KBq.)— K3 
25P— B4 

KKfc— Kt5 
KKt^K4 
KtxKt 
B— R5 
P— KB4 
KtxB 
QBxP 
K— R sq. 
B— B3 
QxKt 
Q— Kt3 
E^B2 
QR— KB sq. 
P-KR4(j7) 
B-Q2 
B— B3 
Q— Kt4 
Q— KB4 

26 Q— K6 
27R— K2 
28 R— K sq, 
29R— K2 

30 R— K sq. 

31 R— K2 

32 R— K sq. 

33 Q— R6 ch. (h) 
34QxPch. 0) 
35RxRch. 

36 R— KtSdisch. 
37BxRch. 

38 Rn-K7 ch. 

39 B— K7 ch. 

40 B— B3 disch. 
41K— K6ch. 

White mates iu 

QxQBP 

Q— Kt 8 ch. 

Q-B7 

Q— KtSch. 

Q-B7 

Q— Q8 ch. 

Q— B7 

K— Kt sq. (t) 

RxQ 

K— R sq. 

R— B3 (*) 

K— R2 

K— R3 

K— R2 

K— R3 

K— R2 

three moves. (0 

for White will be safe then, while the opponent will hardly be able to Castle 
on the same wing, and, therefore, the attacking advance by P — KB4 should Ix* 
reserved. 

(d) We should have preferred 12 P— KKt 3, and if 12. . .P— QB3; 13 Kt— K3, fol- 
lowed by P — KB4, with a very good game. 

(e)16QxPwasnotgood, on account of 16.. QxQ; 17KtxQ, 17QR— Esq.; 18 
Kt— Kt 5, 18 R X P, threatening B— Q6. 

(/) Obviously necessary, for otherwise Black will play B — K5, threatening Q — Kt .5 
and afterward Q — Bd. ^ 

(ff) B — Q2 at once would have prevented White from doubling the Rooks on the 
K file, and was in many other respects superior. He could not. of course, 
capture the BP now on account of the reply R x B, which, if he retake, 
would cost the Queen by the rejoinder B x P ch. 

(h) White tries another scheme, which succeeds, though by rights it ought not to 
have altered the result which legitimately was a draw. 

(i) No doubt, he overlooked the adversary's ingenious design. He ought to have 
interposed (^ueen at R2, and even if White answered Q — Kt 5, he would not 
have found it difficult to effect a draw. 

U) This fine sacrifice was certainly his l)est resource, as it gave him some winning 
chance without risk ; but it does not lead to a conclusive win. 

(ft) A fatal error. He ought to have moved 36 . . . K— R2, and after 87 R— K7 ch. 
(If 37 R— Kt7 ch., 37 K— R3; 38 R— K6 ch., 38 R— B8, and wins), 37. . .R— 
B2; 38 Rx R ch., 38 K— R3; 39 B— Kt7 ch., 39 K -R2, White has no more 
than a draw. Another way was : 36. . .K— R2; 87 R— K7 ch., 37 K— R3; 38 
R— K6 ch. (or 38 B— Kt 7 ch., 88 K— R2; 89 B x R disch., 39 K— R sq. ; 40 
B— Kt 7 ch. , 40 K— Kt sq. , and White can only draw) ; 88 . . . R— B3 ; 89 R x R 
ch., 39 K— R2, and draws. 

(I) The mate is forced by 42 R— Kt7 ch., 42 K— R sq.; 43 R— R6, 48 Q— R2; 44 
R (R6) X Q mate. 

LIPSGHUTZ' GAMES. 

289 

Game No. 224. 

Played in the first round, April 4th. 

HAMMPPE-ALLGAIER GAMBIT. 

W/iiie 
J. Taubenhaus, 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— KB4 

4 Kt— B3 

5 P— KR4 
6Kt— Kt5(a) 
TKtxBP 
8P— Q4 
9PxP 

10 B— B4 ch. 
IIB— K3 

12 P— KB4 

13 P— Q5 

14 0—0 

16 B— Q4 ch. 

Black 

S. Lipschtttz. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
PxP 
P— KKt4 
P— Kt5 
P— KK3 
KxKt 
P— B6 (b) 
B— K2 (c) 
K— Kt2 
P-Q3 
P— KIM 
Kt— Kt sq. 
Kl^KB3 (d) 
K— R2 (e) 

16BxR 

17 K— Kt2 

18 Kt-Kt5 

19 B— Q3 
20KtxBP 

21 P— K5 ch. 

22 Kt— K6 

23 R— K sq. (gr) 
24BxBch. 
25P— QB3 
26PxKt 
27Kt— Kt5ch. 
28Q— Q3 

29 K— Kt sq. 

30 K— K sq. 

31 K— Kt sq. 

Given np as 

QxB 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— Kt3 
B— Q2 
R— QB sq. 
B— B4 
KtxQP(/) 
Kt— Kt5(A) 
KtxB 
Q— K sq. 
BxRP(i) 
K— Ra 
Q— B3 ch. 
Q— Kt 3 ch. 
Q— B3 ch, 

drawn, (j) 

(a) A lx)ld opening to play in a tournament. 

(6) Tiiough the game is defensible even without this move, it is probably better 

to close the adverse KB file and to give np in the way adopted in the text 

the Pawn that cannot be maintained anyhow. 
(n) Here we prefer B— Kt 2, followed by K— K sq., in reply to B— B4 ch. 

(d) This loses the exchange unnecessarily, for Kt — Q2 instead would have enabled 
him to interpose the Bishop in reply to White's next move. 

(e) Best. For if the Bishop interpose, White answers P — K5, followed soon by 
P— K6. 

(/) Black has played very ingeniously and has well developed his blocked-up 
pieces for the attack, for which, however, the K centre furnished a surer aim 
than this move, which was probably selected for no better reason than that it 
comprised a pretty trap, for White could not answer 2.S B x B ch., 38 Kt x B; 
24 Q X Kt, on account of 24 . . . Kt — K6 ch. 22 P x P was, however, much 
stronger, for it brought Queen and Bishop into play very soon. 

(g) A very good answer. 

ih)It 2,S...Kt— Kt8; 24BxBch., 24 KtxB; 25 Q— Q8, 25K— Kt8; 26 Kt— Q4, 
26 Q— B sq. ; 27 P x P, 27 B x QP; 28 R— K6 ch., and wins. 

(f) Black had still a won game, we believe, by 26. . .Q— B3 ch.; 27 K— R2 (if 27 
K— Ktsq., the game might proceed 27...Q— Kt3 ch.; 28 K— R sq. [or 28K— B 
sq., 28BxP, etc.], 28...Q— B7: 29 Q-Q3, 29 R— B7; £0 Qx Kt ch., 80 K 
— R8, and wins), 27. . .KtxP, with an irresLstible attack. 

(J) Black repeats his moves, which means be offers a draw. We believe, how- 
ever, that 80; . .Kt — Kt6 ch. promised well for his winning prospects, as the 
following probable continuation will show : 81 K— Kt 2, 81 Q— B3 ch.; 82 Kt 
— K4, 32 Q-JJ7 ch. ; 83 Q X Q, 83 R x Q ch. ; 34 K— Kt sq. , 84 P x P, with the 
superior game. 

290 

LIPSCHUTZ GAMES. 

Game No. 225. 

Played in the second round, May 3d. 

IIUY 

IX>PEZ. 

mate 

Black 

18 QxB 

QxQ 

S. Lipsc'hatz. 

J. Taul>eiihaus. 

19KxQ 
20 R K3 

P— KKt3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

21 P— QKt 3 

K-Qsq. (0 
KB-Q2 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

22 QR— K sq. 

3B— Kt5 

Kt-B3 

23 P— B3 

P QB4 

4 0—0 

KtxP 

24 Kt— K2 

B B2 

5 R— K sq. 

Kl^B3 (a) 

25 P— QB4 

R^Q7 

6BxKt 

QPxB 

26 Kt-B3 

P— B4 

7KtxP 

B K2 

27 R (K sq.)- 

K2KxE 

8 P— Q4 (h) 

0 0 

28RxR 

K— B sq. 

9P QB3 

B— K3 

29 K— B2 

E-Q6 

10 Kt— Q2 

P— B4 

30Kt— Kt5 

P— QE3 

11 QKt— B3 

Kt-Kt5fc) 

31 K<^R3 

K— Kt2 

12 B-B4 

KtxKt 

32 K1^B2 

P— B5 

13BxKt 

P QB3 

33 K— K sq. 

K— B3 

14 Q Bsq. 

B-Q4 

34 R-Q2 (/) 

RxE 

15 Q-K3 

PxP 

35KxR 

P— KKt 4 

16KtxP 

P— B3 (d) 

Drawn. 

17 B— B7 

QxB 

uo 5. . .Kt — Q3 is, as usual iu similar positions, the best defence. He might have 
l>eeu greatly hampered in his development after the inferior move in the text. 

(6) For now White might have more effectively carried out the idea of an attack 
which the editor introduced in a kindred position in his last match with the 
late Mr. Zukertort, the positions being alike with the exception that Zukertort 
had played 5...Kt— Q3, namely: 8 Q— K2 (threatening KtxQBP if Black 
answer O — O), 8...B— K8; 9 P — Q8, and again Black cannot Ca«tle on 
account of the reply Kt x KBP. It will now be seen that for the purposes of 
defence in this variation Black's Knight is better posted at Q8 than at KB3, 
for in the former case Black would at this point gain time by Kt — KB4, 
threatening Kt— Q5, whereas, in the present position, if Black play 9. . .Kt— 
Q4, White obviously answers P — QB4. 

(c) P— B3, with the view of playing Q — Kt3, followed by QR— Q sq., or else of 
entering in the centre by Kt— Q4, would have better maintained Black's slight 
superiority on account of his two Bishops. 

{d) He had to guard against B x KtP, but R— K sq. served the same object and 
was better. 

(e) Indirectly providing against P — QB4, to which Black would now replv 
B X QBP. 

(/) Both parties play cautiously and well, and a draw results from the nature of 
the position. 

LIPSCHUTZ GAMES. 

291 

Game No. 226. 

Plajed in the second round, May 9tb. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
J. Taubeiihau.s. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 

4 0—0 

5 P-Q4 
6Q— K2 
7BxKt 
8PxP 
9Kt-B3 

10Kt-Q4 
11 E— K sq. 

Black 
S. Lipschiltz. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 
K<^-Q3 
KtPxB 
Kt— Kt2 
0—0 
Kt— B4 
B— E3 

12 Q— Kt4 

13 Klr-B5 (6) 

14 B— R6 

15 QE^Q sq. 
16RxKP 

17 R— R6 (d) 

18 B— K3 (e) 

19 Kt— K4 (/) 

20 Q— B3 

21 Q— R5 

22 Kir-Ri (h) 
23BxKt(/) 
24KRxQP 
25QxQPch. 

Kt— K3 (a) 
P— B3 
R^B2 
PxP 
B-Q3 (r) 
QB— B sq. 
R^B3 
R— Kt3 
B— B sq. 
P-Q4 (gr) 
Kt— B5 (i) 
QB— KKt5 
PxR 
QxQ 

(«) Careless play that might have cost him the game. K — R sq. was his only 
good move. 

(6) It is still more strange that White should have overlooked .such a good oppor- 
tunity of obtaining a winning position by 13 B — R6, 13 Kt — Kt4 ! (if 13. . . 
K— Rsq.; 14 Ktx Kt, and wins); 14 Bx P, 14 Kx B; 15 P— KR4, 15 P— KB4; 
lePxPenpass., 16BxP; 17PxKt, 17BxP; 18QR— Qsq., 18 R— B5; 19 
Kt^Ke ch., 19 PxKt; 20 RxQ, and wins. 

(c) Forced. For White threatened RxKt. If 16. . .Q— K sq., then still 17 Rx 
Kt, 17 P x R; 18 Kt x P, and wins. Or if 16. . .Q— QB sq. ; 17 B x P, 17 R x B 
(or 17. . .KtxB; 18 Ktx B cli., and wins); 18 Kt x R, winning easily. 

(d)U 17 KtxB, 17 PxKt; 18RxP?, 18 Q— B8, and wins. The move in the 
text was his best resource, as Black would also win a piece by Q — B3 if the 
Rook retreated to K sq. 

(c) Obviously, if Kt x B, the Pawn retakes, and White's Rook is attacked by the 
Queen. 

(/■) We think that 19 R x P, 19 R x R; 20 B x R was sound and his best course ; 
for if 20...R— Kt3; 21 Q— QB4, 81 Q— Kt4; 22 Kt-Kt3, 22P— QB4?; 28 
QKt— K4, 23 Q— K4 (or 28 . . .Q— Q sq. ; 24 B x P, and wins); 24 Kt x B, 24 
PxKt; 85P— Kt4, etc. 

(ff) A very clever trap, no doubt, but fraught with great danger to himself if the 
opponent only saw through it. P — Q3 was the right play. 

(^i) But White stumbles into it and ruins his game at a point w^here he might 
have obtained the advantage by 22 P — QB4, 22 Q — K sq. (threatening to win 
the Queen by Rx P ch.); 23 Kt(K4)— Kt 8, 23 Px P; 24 Kt— R4, and if 24. . . 
Kt— B5; 25 Q— K5, and wins. 

<t) The fortune of the battle is completely turned by this remarkably ingenious 
sortie which victoriou.sly liberates all the beleaguered black forces. See dia- 
gram. 

O) His game was gone. If 28 Q— B3, 28 Q x Kt; 24 Q x Kt (or 24 B x Kt, 24 QB 
— KKt 5, and wins), 34. . .R — Kt5, and wins. 

292 

UPSCHUTZ' GAMES. 

Position after Black^s 22d move 

Kt-B5 

Black— S. Lipschiitz. 

iHiH m^m 

K ■ ■ ■! 

BtB ■!■ 

m HtB ■« 

a HgiLii 

tBm BSD 

B BIB B 

White — J. Taubenhaus. 

26RxQ 

27 P— KR3 (it) 

28Er-Q2 

29P— QKt3(/) 

30 Ki^QB3 (m) 

31R-Q7 

32B— K5 

33B— Q4 

34Kt-B3 

35 Besigns. 

R— QB3 
B— K3 
BxQRP 
B— Kt8 
RxKt 
BxP 
B^B4 
R— B3 
BxP 

(k) The fight could have been much prolonged by 87 R— Q2, 27 B— K2; 28 B— 

Et 8, etc. The more adopted costs a valuable Pawn. 
(I) Black's answer sufficiently shows at once that this plan of keeping the adverse 

Bishop shut up, on which White had apparently relied previously, is altogether 

abortive, 
(m) A blunder, but the game could not be saved anyhow. 

MASON'S GAMES. 

Game No. 327. 

Played in the first round, March 27th. 

FBKNCH DEFENCE. 

White 
D. G. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2P— Q4 
3PxP 

Black 
J. Mason. 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
PxP 

4 KK1H-B3 B— KB4 

5B— Q3 BxB 

6QxB KKt— B3 

7 O— O B— Q3 

8 R— K sq. ch. 

Game lost by forfeit 

Game No. 228. 

Played in the second round, April 20th. 

BUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

6 QKtr-B3 

P— Q3 

7 B X Kt ch. 

PxB 

J. Mason. 

D. G. Baird. 

8P— Q4 

PxP 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

9KtxP 

§=^ 

2 KKt^B3 

QKt— B3 
P— QR3 

10 P— KB4 

3B— Kt6 

11 Kt-KB3 

P— KR3 (a) 

4B— R4 

KiH-B3 

12 P— KR3 (6) 

Kt— R2 

6 0-O 

B E2 

13 B— £3 

B— K3 

(a) The advance of this Pawn is the cause of his trouble at the end of the game. 

Kt — K sq. was preferable. 
(6) Whitens advance of this wing Pawn has also an attacking object, and he 
. intends to push the EtP at the earliest opportunity. 

294 

MASON 8 GAMES. 

14 Q— K2 
16 P— K5 

16 QR— Q so. 

17 QKt— R4 
18P— QKt3 

19 B— Q4 

20 Kt— B5 (d) 
21BxB 

22 Kt— Q4 

23 QR— K so. 

24 Q— B2 
25Q— R4 
26Q— B2 
27 P— QR4 
28R^K3 

29 KR— K so. 
SOP— KKt4 
31Q— Kt3 

B— KB3 
B— K2 
P-Q4 

I — Kt sq. 

— R sq. (c) 
Q— K sq. 
BxKt 
R— KKt sq. 
B-Q2 
Q— Q sq. 
Q— K sq. 
Q— Q sq. 
P— QR4 
Q— QB sq. 
Q— K sq. 
Q— Q sq. 
R— Ksq. 
Q— B sq. 

32 K— R2 

33 Q— R4 (e) 
34Q— Kt3 

35 P— KR4 

36 R (K sq.)- 

37 R— Kt 2 

38 P— Kt 5 
39P— Kt6 
40P— K6 
41QxP 

42 Q— Kt 3 

43 R— K sq. 
44P— B5 
45RxKt 
46 P— QB4 
47Q— Kt6 
48 P-Be ({/) 

R— QKtsq. 
Q— Q sq. 
R— Rsq. 
R— KKt sq. 
-K2 Q— QB sq. 
Q— R3 
■ QR— K sq. 
PxP 
B— Bsq. 
Q-B8 
K^-B3 
Q-R3 
Kt— K5(/') 
PxR 
Q— R sq. 
BxP 
Resigns. 

(c) Feeble. Q— Kt4, followed by KR— QKt wj., was the right play and left the 

game still even. 
. (</) Black ought to have still challenged the exchange of Queens at Kt 4 ou the 

last move. His omission is now severely punished by loss of grountl. 
(e) White does not play a portion of this game with his usual decision, and he 

resorts sometimes to useless repetition moves. The plan which he ultintately 

adopts, namely, of advancing the Pawns on the K wing, could have l>een 

initiated here already. 
(/)His game was not to be saved at length, but this was just what White was 

waiting for, as it enables him to finish oS with a few elegant strokes. 
(g) The termination is very beautiful. 

Game No. 229. 

Played in the first round, April 4th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2 KK^-B3 
3B— Kt6 

4 0-0 

5 Kt~B3 
6P— KR3 
7P— Q3 

Black 
J. Mason. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 

U' 

Kt— K sq. 

8K^-Q5 
9KtxBch. 
lOB— Kt5 
11 B— QB4 
12BxB 
13PxP 
14B— Q2 
15Kt— Kt5 
16 P— KB4 
17RxP 

P— B4 
QxKt 
Q— B2 
B— K3 
QxB 
QxP 
Q— R4 
Q— Kt3 
PxP 
RxR 

295 

18BxR 

19 Kt— B3 

20 Q— Q2 

21 P— R3 (a) 

22 B— K3 
28 Q— B2 
24 R— K sq. 
26KtxKt 
26QxQch. 
27 B— B2 
28BxR(ft) 
29K— B2 

30 K— K3 

31 B— Kt3 

32 P— Q4 

33 B— K5 
34P— KKt3(c) 
35K— B3 
36PxP 
37 K— K3 
38P— B3 
39B— Q6 
40B— B4 
41B— K6 

42 K— Q2 

43 K— B2 
44K— Q2 
45K— K3 
46K— Q2 

(a) The game has been quite evenly contested so far, but the useless advance iu 
the text causes him embarrassment in the ending. 

(6) A draw ought to be the legitimate result arising from this position. 

(c) It would have probably facilitated his playing for a draw if he had not 
advanced this Pawn. 

(di He allows himself to be wearied by the patient manceuvring of his clever 
opponent. If he had looked out as sharp as he had done through the greater 
part of the game, he would have seen the importance of trying to exchange 
the isolated QKtP at once in order to be in time to stop the adversary's King 
from entering at Kr.. 62 P— Kt3, 62 PxPch.; 63 K x P, 68 Kt— B7; 64 
K— B2, 64 K— K3; 65 K— Q2, 65 K— B4; 66 K— K3 would have brought 
White's King up for the defence of the centre in proper time. 

(e) After a delay of one move Black sees t&e decisive effect of this fine coup. 

(/) No help for it. If K— Bo, Black would answer Kt— Kt 6 ch. 

MARONE 

1 OAMKS. 

P— KE3 

47 K— B2 

K— Kt4 

Q— B2 

48B— Q6 
49B— K7 

K— R5 

Kt— B3 

P— R4 

Kt, KT14 

SOB Q6 

Kt^Kt 4 . 

R— Ksq. 

51 B B4 

Kt— K5 

P QR3 

52 B K5 

Ki^B7 

Kt^K4 

53B— Q6 

P— Kt4 

RxKt 

64B— B7 

Kt^K5 

KxQ 

55B— K6 

P— Kt5 

RxRch. 

56RPxP 

PxP 

Kt— B6 

57PxP 

KxP 

K<^K3 

58B B4 

K— R5 

P Q4 

59 B K5 

K— Kt4 

K B3 

60B B4 

K— B3 

K— B4 

61B— K5 

K— Q2 

P— KR4 

62 B— B4 {({) 

K— K3 

P— KKt4 

63B— K5 

K— B4 

P-Kt6ch. 

64P— Kt3 

PxPch. 

PxPch. 

65KxP 

Kt— B7 

P— B4 

66 K— R4 

K-K5 

P— B5 

67K— Kt5 

Kt— Q6 

K— B3 

68B B6 

K— B6 

K— K2 

69 B K5 

K-K5 

K-Q2 

70B— B6 

Kt— B8 (e) 

K— B3 

71 K-Kt4 (/) 

Kt— K7 

Kt— Kt4 

72 K-B5 

Kt X KtP 

K-Q2 

73B— K5 

Kt— K7 

Kt— K3 

74 Resigns. 

K— B3 

296 

MASON 8 OAHES. 

Game No. 280. 

Played in the second round, May 3d. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
J. Masou. 

IP— K4 

2KKt— B3 

3B— Kt5 

4B— R4 

5P— Q3 

6P— B3 

7B— B2 

8 Q— K2 (a) 

9PxP 
10 QKt— Q2 
IIP— KR3 

12 P— QKt 3 (6) 

13 P— QB4 
UKtxKt 

15 B— QKt sq. 

16 0—0 

Black 
J. W. Baird. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
B— B4 
P— QKt4 
P-Q4 
PxP 
P— KR3 
0-0 
B— K3 
P— Kt5(c) 
K<^Q5 
QxKt 
QR-Qsq. 
Q-Q2 

17 Kt— B3 
ISKtxB 
19 R— Q sq. 
20B— K3 
21 Q— B3 
22RxR(d) 
23 R— Q sq. 
24RxR 

25 Q— K2 

26 P— B3 

27 Q— B2 

28 K— B sq. 

29 Q— Q2 

30 Q— B2 
31Q— Kt3 
32 Q— B2 
33Q— Kt3 

B-Q5 
QxKt 
Q— B4 
Q-B3 
B— B sq. 
RxR 
R— Q3 
QxR 
B— Kt2 
Kt— Q2 
P-QB4 
K— B sq. 
Q— K2 
K— K sq. 
K— B sq. 
K— K sq. 
K— B sq. 
Drawn. 

(a) P X P is the usual move h6re, but this also seems to be good. 
(5) This and the last are not to our taste and principles. Kt — B sq., with the 
view of entering with the Knight at K3, was much better. 

(c) A fine answer which gives Black possession of the centre with his minor 
pieces. 

(d) Which practically means playing for a draw, but neither side had anvthin{; 
better. 

Game No. 281. 
Played in the second round, May 17th. 

GIUOCO PLA.no. 

White 

J. Mason. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 

Black 
J. W. Baird. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 

3B— B4 
4P— Q3 
5B— K3 
6 QKt— Q2 
7Q— K2 

B— B4 
P-Q3 
B— Kt 3 (a) 
Kt— B3 
Q-K2 

mason's games. 297 

8Kt— Esq. B— Q2 24 Kt— B3 P— B3 

9B— Kt3 0—0 25Kt— B4 Q— B2 

10 B— Kt 5 P— KE3 26 QR^KKt so. (d) 

11 B— KR4 Kt— QR4 P— Q4 
12Kt^K3 P— B3 37K1H-B5 PxP 

13 P— KE3 B X Kt (h) 28 P X P KIU-Q so. (e) 

14PxB KtxB 29P— R4 R— Q2 

ISRPxKt Q— K3 30P— Kt5 BxKt 

16BxKt QxB 31PxBPr/) BxP 

17 0—0 Q— K2 3^RxPch. K— B sq. 

18Kt— Q2 Q— Kt4(c) 33 (^R5 B— R2 

19K— R2 B— K3 34QxRP P— K5 disch. 

20R— B2 P— R3 35K— Rsq. RxR 

21QR— KBsq. Q— R5 36 RxR Q— R4 

22P— KKt4 QR— Bsq. 37 R— K7 ch. K— Kt sq. 

23 R— Kt 2 Q— Q sq. 38 Q— Kt7 mate. 

(a) We prefer B x B, followed by Kt — R4, and exchanging the other Bishop. 

(6) 1 3 . . . Kt X B ; 14 RP x Kt, 14 B— Q sq. , was now much better play. 

(c) P — KB4 would hare equalized positions. 

(<t) White has energetically taken advantage of the time lost by the adversarj' to 

form a strong K side attack, 
(e) In view of the coming onslaught of the adverse Pawns, which were sure to 

give him an opportunity of opening the KB file, this Rook stood better where 

it was. and the QR should have been employed for occupying the Q file here, 

as well as previously on the 33d move. 
(/■) Brilliant, profound and absolutely decisive, as will show itself within a few 

Game No. 333. 

Played in the first round, April 2d. 

SICILIAN DEFENCE. 

Wkiie 

Black 

5P— Q3 

P Q3 

J. Mason. 

H. E. Bird. 

6 0-0 
7P QR3 

P QR3 
Kt— B3 

IP— K4 

P-QB4 

8P— R3 

0-0 

2 KK1^B3 

QKt— B3 

9B K3 

P-K3 (6) 

3Kt-B3 

P— KKt3 

10 P— K5 (c) 

PxP 

4B B4(a) 

B Kt2 

llBxBP 

R^Ksq. 

(a) Not commendable in this opening, as Black may effectively answer P — K8, 

followed by KKt— B3 and P— Q4. 
(6) He should have first supported the QBP once more by P — QKt 8. 
(c) An excellent answer that gives White the better game. 

298 

12 Kt— K4 
13B— K3 

14 Q— Q2 

15 QE— Q sq. 
16B— E2 
17B— Kt5 
ISBxKt 
19 Kt— B6 oh. 
20BxB 
21B— Kt5 
22P— Q4 
23 B— B4 
24Kt— K5 
26KtxKt 

26 P— QB3 

27 KR— K sq. 
28R— K3 
29 R— Kt 3 
30P— KR4 

31 R— K sq. 

32 QR— K3 

33 R— Kt 5 

34 QR-Kt 3 

36 Q— Q sq. 
36R— K3 

37 Q— Q2 

((f) Black has successfully withstood the adverse onslaught on the K side, but 

endangers the centre by this compromising attempt of a demonstration on the 

Q wing. 
(e) Ill-judged. White's QP was the more dangerous one, and he ought to have 

captured the same at once. 
(/) Black's best plan of defence was to manoeuvre one of his Rooks to his second 

row and the other on his first row, and then to bring up his K — K8. 
(f^)55. . R— R2; 56 Rr-B7, 56 RxR; 57 PxR, 57 R— B4, gave him good pros 

pects of a di'aWf whereas he now drifts into a losing position. 
(h) White has most skilfully conducted his part and decides his victory finally by 

this excellent stroke. 

MASONS 

GAMES. 

P— Kt3 

38 Q K2 

P— Kt 5 (d) 

Kt-Q4 

39RPxP 

PxP 

P— B3 

40P— B4 

PxP 

P— QKt4 

41QxP 

R^Rsq. 
KR— R3 

P— B4 

42 P Q5 

Q B2 

43 Q-Q4 

Q-R2 

PxB 

44QxKtP 

E^Kt3 

BxKt 

45 Q B3 

Q— R8 ch. (e) 

Q-Q3 

46 R— K sq. 

QxP 

B-Kt2 

47 Q— B7 

R— Kt2 

P— K6 

48Q B6 

R— R7 

Q— K3 

49 R— KB sq. 

Q Kt4 

QR— B sq. 

60QxQ 

RxQ 

QxKt 

51 P— Q6 

K^Q4 (/) 

R^K3 

62 R— B sq. 

K— Kt2 

R— KB sq. 

53R^Kt3 

K— B3 

R— B2 

54 KR^QB3 

B K3 

Q— K sq. 

55 R— Kt sq. 

R (Q4)-R4 (g) 

P— KR4 

56R^Kt6 

R— R8oh. 

K— R2 

67 K— R2 

Rr-Q8 

Q K2 

58R— B7 

R (R4)— R8 

B— B3 

69 P Q7(/0 

R— R8ch. 

B— Ksq. 

60K— Kt3 

R (QR8)-Q8 

R— Bsq. 

61B— Kt5ch. 

K— K4 

P— R4 

62 R— B5 ch. 

Resigna 

B B2 

MASON B OAKES. 

299 

Game No. 338. 

Played in the second round, April 27th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 
H. E. Bird. 

IP— KB4 
2P— K3 
3 KKt— B3 
4P— QKt3 
5B— Kt2 
6B— K2 

7 0—0 

8 Q— K sq. 
9P— Q3 

10 Kt— K5 
IIQ— Kt3 

12 Ki^Q2 

13 QKt— B3 

14 Q— K3 
15BxKt 
16KtxB 
17R— B3 

18 P— KKt 4 

19 K— R sq. 

20 QR— KKt sq. 

21 KR^Kt 3 
22PxBP 

Black 
J. Mason. 

P-Q4 
P-QB4 
P— QR3 
QKt— B3 
P— K3 
Ki^B3 
B— K2 
O— O 
Kt— Ksq. 
B— Q2 
P— B4 (a) 
B— B3 
P— QKt4 
KtxKt 
BxB 
K1^Q3 
B— K sq. 

Er-Il2 

P-QR4 (6) 
P— Kt5 
P— R5 
KtxP 

23R^Kt5 
24RPxP 
25B— Kt4 
26 B X Kt 
27KE^Kt3 
28P— K4 
29Q— Kt2(d) 
30PxBP 
31 Q— Q5 ch. 
32QxBP 
33 R— KB sq. 
34KtxB(e) 
35QxKtP 

36 KR^B3 

37 KR— B2 

38 Q— K sq. 
39R^K2 
40R— K4 

41 K— Kt sq. 

42 Q— B2 

43 QR— K sq. 

44 R^K6 ch. 

45 QR— K4 
46Q— R4 
47R^B6(/') 

PxP 
Q— B3 
P— R3 
PxB 
P— Q5 
P— Kt4(c) 
R— KKt2 
QxP 
B— B2 
R— Qsq. 
R— Q4 
RxKt 
K— R2 
P— Kt5 
P— R4 
Q-Q2 
KR— KB4 

Q-Q4 
K— R3 
R— Q2 
Q— B2 
K— R2 
KR— Q4 
Q— B4 
Resigns. 

{a) As usual, we condemn such a move that leaves a hole in the centre. P — B8 
■was by far better. 

(b) Somewhat premature. It was preferable to endeavor to get rid of the danger- 
ous adverse Knight in the centre by Kt — B2. 

(c) The opponent has formed his attack most skilfully, and it is difficult to suggest 
anything good for Black. Of course, if 28. . .Px KP; 29 Kt— Kt4, followed 
by Kt X RP ch., with a winning game. 

(d) Excellent play and decisive within a few moves. 

(e) In Mr. Bird's happy mood. Of course, he recovers the Queen immediately by 
Kt X P ch., but still this is very pretty. 

(/) Virtually his victory was secured for some time, but the Queen is here caught 
very neatly. 

300 

MASON S aAHES. 

Game Xo. 384. 

Played iu the first round, April 13th. 

IRREGULAR OFEXIXG. 

White 

J. Mason. 

1 P— KB4 
2P— K3 

3 P— QKt 3 

4 B— Kt 2 

5 KKt— B3 
6B— Q3 

7 P— QB3 (a) 

8Kt-R3 

9K^-B2 
lOPxP 
UKtxKt 
12Q— B3 
13B— K2 
14 Q— B sq. 
15BxB 

16 Q— B3 

17 0—0—0 

18 P— B4 (d) 
19BxB 

20 I'— Q4 

Black 

C. F. Burille. 

P-Q4 
KKt— B3 
P— K3 
B— K2 
P-QB4 
Kt— B3 
Q— B2 
P— QR3 
P— K4 (6) 
KtxP 
QxKt 
B— Q3 
B— Kt 5 (c) 
Q-R4 
QxB 
0-0-0 
KE— K sq. 
B— K4 
RxB 
QxQ 

21PxQ 
22RxP 
23RxPch. 
24 R— Q sq. 
25KxR 

26 K— Q2 

27 P— KR4 
28Rr-KKt4 
29PxP 

30 K— Q3 
31KxR 
32 K— Q3 
33PxKt 
34K— K4 

35 K— B5 

36 K— B6 

37 P— QR4 
38KxP 
39 K— B5 
40K— B4 
41K— K4 
42 K— Q4 

PxQP 
PxP 
K— Kt sq. 
RxRch. 
Kt— Q4 

Er-R4 

P— KR3 
P— KKt4 
R— R7 ch. 
RxKt{e) 
KtxPch. 
KtxR 
PxP 
K— B2 
K— Q2 
K— K sq. 
P— R4 
K— K2 
P— B3 
K-Q3 
K— K3 
K— Q3 
Drawn. 

(a) This and the last move are not commendable. 

(b) Black has obtained the superior deTcIopmeut, but we lielieve he might have 
made more of his advantage by initiating a vring attack with 9. . .P — QKt 4, 
and if 10 P— QR4, 10 QKt— R4, etc. 

(c) Even now P — QKt 4 was stronger. 

(d) An excellent move which relieves White's position and fully equalizes matters. 

(e) Black has ingeniously fought for a win against his formidable opponent, and 
he has succeeded by fine play to gain a Pawn, but the position of his King ia 
against him, and he can do no more than draw. 

mason's games. 

301 

Game No. 235. 

Played in the second round, May 14th. 

PETROFFS DEFENCE. 

IF/nte 

Black 

C. F. BuriUe. 

J. Mason. 

1P-.K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt-B3 

KKt— B3 

3 B— B4 (a) 

KtxP 

4Kt— B3 

KtxKt 

oQPxKt 

Q— K2(ft) 

6 0—0 

P— KB3 

711— Ksq, 

P Q3 

8Kt— R4 

B— K3 (c) 

9Q B3 

P— B3 id) 

lOBxB 

QxB 

11 B K3 

P— KKt3 

12Q— Kt3 

B— Kt2 

13 P— KB4 
14PxP 

Q— K2 
QPxP 

15 Q B2 

P— Kt3 

16P— R4 

Kt— R3 

17Q— K2 

K<r-B2 

18 QE— Q sq. 
19P— B4 

20 P— B5 

21 PxP (e) 
22Q— B2 
23QxKt 

24 Kt— B3 

25 E— Q2 

26 KE— Q so. 
27RxB 

28 K— B2 
29Q— K4 
30Q— QR4 
31R— K2 
32 K<^Q2 
33Klr-B4 
34Q— E6 
35P— QKt3 

36 PxP 

37 Eesigns. 

Q-K3 
0—0 
Kt— Q4 
PxP 
KtxB 
ExPi 
P-Ql 
KE— QE sq. 
E^E8 
ExEch. 
E— Esq. 
E— QKt sq. 
P— K5 
E— Ksq. 
P— B4 
E— KBsq. 
P— B5 
P— B6 
ExPch. 

(a) An old attack that has justly fallen into desuetude among modem players, as 
it affords insufScient compensation for the Pawn sacrificed. 

(6)o...P— KB3; 6 0—0, 6 Q— K3. is the only defence, and it makes a great 
difference to reverse the order of the two moves, for in reply to the text 
move White could win at once by Kt — Kt5. 6...P— ^8 is also had on account 
of 7 Kt X P, 7 Q— K2 (7 . . . P x Kt would be disastrous on account of 8 B x P 
ch. ) ; 8 B X P ch. , 8 K— Q sq. ; 9 O— O, with a strong attack. 

(c) A very noteworthy novelty that seems to do away with many difScult compli- 
cations that are incidental to this form of opening. 

(d) Kt — B3 was preferable. 

(e) It was much better to delay opening the R file for the opponent. He evidently 
overlooks that on the 23d move Black gains time by attacking the Knight. 

(/) Black's defence in the middle part has been admirable, and, with two Pawns 
ahead, he now assumes the attack which he conducts to the end with consum- 
mate mastery. 

302 

MABON S GAMES. 

Game No. 336. 

Played in the first roimd, April 5th. 

ENGUSH OPENING. 

White 

J. MasoUv 

1 P— QB4 
2P— K3 
3P— Q4 
4 QKt— B3 
5Kt-B3 
6PxP 

7 B— K2 (a) 

8 0—0 
9B— Q2 

10 R— QB sq, 
IIB— Q3 

12 B— K sq. 

13 KKt— Q2 

14 P— KB4 (b) 
ISBxKt I 

16 Kt— QB4 

17 Kt— K2 (o) 
18P— QKt3(rf) 
19KtxB 
20Q— B2 
21Q— Kt2 
22Kt— Kt3 

23 P— KR3 
24R— KB2 
25 Ki^B sq. 
26B— Q2 
27Kt— Kt3(/) 

28 Kt— K2 

29 P— QR3 
30RxB 

Black 
E. Uelmar. 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
P— QKt3 
KKt— B3 
B— Kt2 
PxP 
B-Q3 
O— O 
P— QB3 
QKt^Q2 
Kt-K5 
KE^K sq. 
Q— R5 
Q— R3 
PxB 
P— KB4 
B-Q4 

QR— Q sq. (e) 
QxKt 
QBr— B sq. 

Ktr-B3 

P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 
Kt— Q4 
P— QR4 
Q— KB3 
P— QB4 
B-R3 (gr) 
BxKt 
PxP 

31 PxP 

32BxR 

33 P— QKt 4 

34B— K3 

35PxP 

36RxKt 

37QxQ 

38 K— B2 

39 P— KKt 4 
40B^QB3 

41 R— B8 ch. 

42 R— B7 ch. 
43RxRP 
44PxPch. 
45 R— R6 ch. 
46K— K2 
47R— R5 

48 Br-Kt 5 ch. 
49R— R5 

50 R— R6 ch. 

51 R— R5 
52R— Kt5ch. 
53R— R5 

54 E^R6 ch. 

55 R— QKt 6 
56RxP 

57 R— QKt sq. 
58R^KKt8q. 
59 R— B sq. 
60KxR 

61 K— K2 

62 K— K3 

63 Resigns. 

ch 

RxRch. 
R— QB sq. 
Q-B3 
PxP(//) 
KtxB 
Q— B8 ch. 
RxQ ch. 
R— Q8 
RxP 
RxP 
K— B2 
K— K3 
R— Kt6(j) 
PxP 
K— B2 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt3 
K— B3 

P-QKt4(./) 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt3 
K— B3 
R— KB6 
K— Kt2 
RxKRP 
K— Kt3 
R— KB6 
K— B3 
RxR 
K— K3 
K-Q4 
K— QB5 

(a) This is a feeble move. He would obtain a slight advantage by 7 B — Kt a ch. 
for if 7...P — B3, then 8 B — Q3, and Black will be under the necessity later 
oil of advancing P— QB4 in order to free his QB, whereupon White, by 
ocs'rian^in'5, will loosen the adverse centre. If. however, 7. . .QKt — Q2; 8 Kt 
— X"), 8 P— QR:i; 9 B— B8, fl Bx B; 10 KtxB, 10 Q— B sq.; 11 Kt— K-). with 
tli3 preferable game. 
{h) He suffers from this injudicious advance and the consequent weakness of his 
KP all through the game. His proper play was 14 P — KKt 3, with the follow- 
ing probable continuation : 14. . .Q— R6; 1.5 P— B3, lH Kt— Kt4 (or 15. . .Ktx 
KKt; 16 Q X Kt); 16 P— K4, 16 P x P; 17 KKt x P, with a good game. 

MASON S GAMES. 

303 

(c) We should have preferred 17 Q— Kt3, 17 K— R sq.; 18 KR— B2, followed by 

the same R — QB2, which would have kept Black on the defensive for a long 

time. 
{d) There seems to be no necesssity for this advance, which breaks holes at QR3 

and QB3. 
{€) The same R — B sq. was l)etter. He has to lose a move later on in order to 

rectify the omission. It was pretty clear that his attack would have to be 

formed by the advance of the QBP, and therefore the Rook ought to have 

occupied the file at once. 
{/") A grave error of judgment, of which the opponent takes advantage with great 

precision. He ought to have stopped the advance of the QBP, and either 

Q— R3 or P— QKt4 were his best play. 
((/) Black manages his attack with great forethought and in excellent style. He 

forces now the isolation of the adverse QP as well as freedom for a strongly- 

su parted passed centre Pawn which gives him a great advantage for the 

endmg. 
(A) This and the following are simple and perhaps good enough; but much 

stronger and leading to a quicker termination was, we believe, 34... Q — B6; 

35Q— R8, 3oRr-B5; 36 K— B2, 36 K— Kt2; 37 PxP, 37PxP, and now 

Black threatens Q— Q8, followed by KtxB or R— B7 ch., and if 38 Q— Kt 

sq. , 38 Kt X B, followed by Q— Q7 ch. , and wins. Or if 38 Q — Kt 2, 38 Kt x B; 

89 Q X Q, 39 Kt— Q8 ch., and wins. Or if 38 Q— Q2, 38 Q x RP, etc. 
{i) This excellent move prevents the adverse King from crossing and threatens to 

win another Pawn by R — B6 ch. 
{J) Black has gained a move very cleverly and repeats the same manoeuvre in the 

next series of moves, with the effect of exchanging his QKt P for the adverse 

RP and afterward winning easily, with two Pawns to one. The ending is 

finely played by Mr. Delmar. 

Game No. 237. 

Played in the second round, May 4th. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

Black 

E. Delmar. 

J. Mason. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

KK*^B3 

3P— B4 

P-Q4 

4PxKP 

KtxP 

5Q— B3 

KtxKt 

6KtPxKt 

Q— R5 ch. (a) 

7 P— KKt3 (6) 

8QxQ 

9B— KKt2 
10 P— Q4 
llBxKtch. 

12 PxP 

13 P— Q4 

14 K1H-K2 

15 PxP 

Q— K5 ch. 
PxQ 
QKt— B3 
P X P en pass. 
PxB 
B— E3 
P— QB4 
PxP 
R— Qaq. 

(a) A novel idea, but hardly an improvement against best play on the other side. 
(6) We think that White could have obtained the better game by 7 Q — Kt 8, 7 Q 
— K6ch.; 8K— Qaq. 

304 

MASONS 

GAMES. 

16 B— K3 

B— Kt5ch. 

27PxP 

RxR 

17 K— B2 

BxKt(c) 

28BxR 

BxP 

18KxB 

B-R4 

29P— KR4 

P— Kt3 

19 KE— Q sq. 

Br-Q4 

30 B K3 

BxB 

20 QR— B sq. 

B Kt3 

31KxB 

K— K2 

21 P— KKt4 

0-0 

32 K Q4 

K-Q2 

22 P— KKt5 

E^Ksq. 

33 K— B5 

K— B2 

23E— B6 

E^K3 

34 P— R4 

K— Kt2 

24RxR 

PxR 

35 K— Kt5 

K— B2 

26R— Q2 

K— B2 

Drawn. 

26 K— B3 

P QB4 

(c) After this exchange the game is equalized. We think tliat Black had pi-e- 
viously the best of the game, and B — R4 at once, followed by B — Kt 3, whs 
the right play. 

Game No. 238. 

Played in the second round, May 9tli. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

16 P— QB3 

Q B3(e) 

K Delmar. 

J. Mason. 

17 K1^K7 cli. 
ISQxQ 

BxKt 
QR^Q sq. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

19 QR-Q sq. 

P-Kt4 

2 KK^-B3 

QKt^B3 

20RxR 

RxR 

3B— Kt5 

Kt— B3 

21BxBP 

RxB 

4 0—0 

P-Q3 

B— KKt5(a) 

22QxRch. 

KxQ 

5P-Q4 

23 R X B ch. 

K— Kt3 

6PxP 

KtxP 

24RxBP 

Kt— B4 

7Q-Q5 

Kt— B4 

25RxKRP 

Kt— Q6 

BR Ksq. 

B K^ 

26R— KKt7 

KtxKtP 

9PxP(ft) 

QxP 

27RxKtP 

Kt— Q8 

10 Kt— QB3 

0 0 0(c) 

28P— R4 

KtxQBP 

llBxKt 

BxKt(d) 

29P— R5 

Kt— Kt5 

12BxPch. 

KtxB 

30 P— R6 

P— R4 

13QxB 

B B3 

31 P— R7 

P— R5 

14 B B4 

Q— QR3 

32 P queeens 

Resigns. 

16Kt— Q5 

R— Q2 

(a) An error. B — Q2 or P x P are the only good moves here. 

(6) White is trying to make more of the position than is in it, apparently. B x Kf 

ch., followed by Q x P ch., was more simple and better. 
ic) Obviously better was 10. . .B— K3; 11 QxQ, 11 PxQ; 12 Kt— Q4, 12 R— QB 

sq., with a fair defensive game ; for if 13 P— QKt4, 13 B — KB3, etc. 
{(I) 1 1 ... P X B; 12 Q X BP, 12 B— B3 would have given White more trouble. 

KA80N S GAMES. 

305 

(e) Of course, a iniwrable blunder, after vrhich resignation was in order. The 
game is of no furtlier interest, excepting to remarlc that Black fights on stub- 
bornly against hope, and White properly simplifies matters on the 2l8t and 
22d mores by giving up the Queen again. 

Game No. 289. 

Played in the first round, March 25th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

G. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 
2 QK1H-B3 
3P— B4 
4P-Q3 
SBPxP 
6KtxP 
7P--Q4 
8KKt— B3 
9 B— Q3 (a) 

10 0—0 

11 P— B3 

12 K— E sq. 
13Kt— Kt3 
14QxB 

15 Kt— B5 

16 B— Kt 5 
17BxB 
18Kt— Kt5(/>) 
19QxKt 
20RxQ 

Bktck 

J. Ma.son. 

P— K4 

KKi^B3 

P-Q4 

PxKP 

Kt-Kt6 

KtxKP 

Kt— Kt3 

B— KB4 

B— K2 

0—0 

P— QB3 

Kt— Q2 

BxB 

Kt-B3 

Q— Q2 

K^-Q4 

Kt(Q4)xB 

KtxKt 

QxQ 

QE— K sq. 

21R— B2 
22Kt— 113 
23P— KKt3 
24K— Kt2 
25 Kt— B4 
26P— KR4 

27 Er— Q sq. 

28 P— Q5 
29KtxP 
30 Kt^K3 
31RxE 
32 Kt— B2 
33E— Q2 

34 K— B2 

35 P— Kt 3 
36E— Q8 
37KxP 
38K— E3 

39 K<^Q4 

40 E— B8 ch. 
41E^QKt8 
42K— Kt2 
43ExPch. 

P— B3 
E-K5 
KE— Ksq. 
K<^K2 
P— KB4 (c) 
P— Kt3 
K— Kt2 
PxP(d) 
E^Qsq, 
Kt— B3 
KtxE 
Kt-B3 
K— B3 
K1^K4 
P— B5 
PxPch. (e) 
E— Kt 5 ch. 
P— KE4 
R— K5 
K— K2 
E— K6 ch. 
ExP 
K— B3 

(a) 9 Kt — Kt 3 would have taken better advantage of Black's previous move 

which was somewhat feeble. 
(6)18 KtxKtch., 18 KtxKt (or 18...QxKt; 19 QR— Ksq.); 19 Kt— K5 was 

more promising. 
(c) Much better was Kt — B4, with the view of entering with the Knight at K6 

orQS. 
(rf) We think that Black was more likely to obtain an advantage by 28. . R — Q 

sq.; 29P— Q6 (if 29 Kt— K6 ch., 29RxKt, and wins), 29 . . . Kt— B sq. ; 80 

KRr-Q2, 30 Kt— Kt8, followed by Kt-Q2, and White's far-advanced Pawn 

will be weak in the end. 
(e) Not as good as 86. . .K — B4, with the probable continuation : 87 R — B8 ch., 

37K— Kt5; 38 RxPch., 38 RxRch.; 89 PxR, 39 Kt— Q6 ch., winning 

both Pawns on the K side. 

306 

MASON S OAHEB. 

44RxP 

45 E^R5 (/) 

46 K— B2 

K1^Q6 
Kt— B6 ch. 
Kt— R6 ch. 

47 K- 

-Kt2((7) 

Drawn. 

(/) R — R4 was much better. 

{g) On the previous move White ought to have played K— B sq. , which gave him 
very good winning prospects. But he could even now force the same position, 
for Black had nothing better than Kt— B5 ch. Wliite's consenting to a draw 
was anyhow premature, for he could well go on in this position without anj- 
risk of losing, and with fair winning chances. 

Game No. 240. 

Played in the second round, April 18th. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

Wliite 
J. Mason. 

1P-Q4 
2P— KKt3 
3B— Kt2 

4P— Qua 

5 P— QB3 
6Kt^B3 

7 P— QKi 4 (6) 

8 0—0 

9 QK^-Q2 
10 R— Kt sq. 
llBPxP(c) 
12B— Kt2 
13 Kt— K5 
14PxB 
15P— E3 

Blaxsk 
G. H. D. Gossip. 

P— Q4 
KKt— B3 
P— K3 
P— B4 
Kt— B3 (o) 
B— Q3 
P— QKt 3 

B— Kt2 
PxKtP 
Q-Q2 
KE— Bsq. 
BxKt 
KKt— Kt5 
Kt— R3 {d) 

16Kt— Kt3 
17 P— K4 
18PxP 
19 Q— Q2 
20Kt— Q4 
21 P— B4 
22KtxKt 
23 Q— Q4 
24KxR 

25 Q— B2 if) 

26 K— R2 Ig) 
27RxKt 
28P— Kt4 

29 P— B5 

30 R— QB sq. 
31BxR 

Given up 

Kt-B4 
KKt— K2 
KtxQP 
QK1^K2 
Q-R5 
Kt— B4 
R— B7 
RxBclx. (e) 
Q— B7 ch. 
Kt-^K6 ch. 
KtxRch. 
QxKt 
Q— Q6 
R— QB sq. 
RxR 
Q-B6 
as drawn. 

(a) We disapprove of White's two last moves, and Black ought to have takep 

advantage of them by advancing P — B5. 
{b) White here cleverly rectifies the unfavorable previous disposition of his Pawns 

on the Q side. 
(c) RP X P, with the view of subsequently instituting an attack on the open QR 

file, was preferable. 

{d) He dare not answer KKt x KP on account of the reply P — Kt 5 which would 

cost him a piece. 
{e) Very spirited, but we do not consider it sound. 
(/) Best, for if 25 K— Kt sq., 25 Kt x BP, threatening mate by Q— KKt7 as well 

as Kt X RP ch. , and winning with ease. 

HASON 8 GAMES. 

307 

ig) Here is the turning point. White could have won now, we believe, by 26 
K— Ktsq., 26QxKt (or 26...Q— K5; 27 Q— B8, 27QxQ; 28 »x^, and 
shduld win) ; 27 Q x Kt, 27 Q x RP: 28 K-B2, etc. 
a draw must ensue. 

After the move in the text 

Game No. 241. 

Played in the second round, April 25th. 

FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 

G. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 
2P— Q4 
3 QKt-B3 
4P— K5 
5P— B4 
6PxP 

7 Kt— B3 (a) 

8 Kt— K2 (6) 
9P— B3 

10 K— Q2 

11 K— B2 

12 Q— Q3 
13QxQ 

14 Kt (K2)— Q4 
15KtxKt(c) 

16 B— Q3 

17 B— K2 

Black 

J. Mason. 

P— K3 
P— Q4 
KK<^B3 
KKt--Q2 
P— QB4 
K<r-QB3 
BxP 
Q— Kt3 
B— B7 ch. 
Q— K6 ch. 
Q— K5 cL 
K<^B4 
KtxQ 
B— Q2 
PxKt 
Kt— B4 
Kt— Kt2 

18 B,— B sq. 
19B— Q2 
20B— R6 
21 QR— K sq. 
22B— Q3 

23 K— B sq. 

24 P— QR3 (d) 

25 P— B5 (e) 
26PxP 

27 B— B2 
28Kt— Q4 
29KtxB 
30RxRch. (or) 
31B— K3 
32BxKt 
33RxB 
34E^K2 
35K— Q2 
36R— K3 
37R— K2 

B— Kt3 
P-QB4 
R— QKt sq. 
Kt^Q sq. 
P— QR4 
P— R5 
Kt— Kt2 
P-B5 (/) 
BxP 
K<^B4 
O— O 
PxKt 
RxR 

Kt— Kt6ch. 
B X B ch. 
BPxB 
R-B5(A) 
K— B2 
R— B7 ch. 
RxRch. 

(a) Perhaps White's best plan in this situation is 7 Kt — R4, and if 7. . .Kt x BP; 
8 Kt X Kt, 8 B X Kt; 9 Q— Kt4, etc. 

(6) Hardly good, though not as dangerous as Black's reply would lead to believe. 

(c) White has defended himself very ingeniously, but it was inadvisable here to 
strengthen the adverse centre by this exchange. 

{d) Unnecessary and weakening his Q side. 

(e) Very good to all appearance, as Black cannot well take the Pawn, but 
dangerous nevertheless, as it isolates the KP. 

(/) If 25 . . . P X P; 26 Kl^Kt 5, 26 P— KKt 8; 27 P— K6, with a fine attack. 

(^)Thi8 and the next move invite disaster. R — B8 was by far better. ' 

(h) A very fine preparation for a winning ending. The object is not to let the 
adverse King cross at K3 without Black heing enabled to exchange Rooks 
by R— K5 ch. 

308 

MASONS 

OAHE8. 

38KxR 

K— Kt3 

49P— US 

P— Q7 

39 K— K3 

K— B4 (i) 

50K— Kt4 

P queens 

40K Q4 

P— R4 

51P— Kt3 

Q-QR8 

41P— Kt3 

P— Kt4 

52P— B4 

K-Q5 

42P— R3 

P— R5 

53K— Kt5 

Q B6 

43P— Kt4ch. 

K— B5 

54K— B6 

QxKtP 

44K— B5 

KxP 

55P— R6 

QxPch. 

45 K— Kt4 

P Q5 

56K— Kt7 

Q— Kt4 cb 

46KxP 

P-Q6 0') 

57 K— R7 

K-B4 

47KxP 

K-K5 

58K— R8 

K— B3 

48P— R4 

K— K6 

59 Resigns. 

(i) Black now easily exhausts the adverse waiting moves and wins the K}* by 

force, after which his victory is assured, as will be seen. 
ij) Most beautiful and, no doubt, the result of forecalculations before exchanging 

Kooks. 

Game No. 242. 

Played in the first round, April 8th. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White 
J. Mason. 

1P-Q4 
2B— B4 
3P— K3 
4B— Q3 
5Kt-Q2 

6 P— KR3 (rt) 

7 KK<^B3 

8 0—0 
9Kt-K5 

lOBxKt 
IIQ— R5 
12 Q— K2 
13B— R2 
14B— K5 
15 P— KB4 (c) 
16BxB 

17 Kt— B3 

18 ki^k:5 

19P— KKt3 
20R— B2 

(a) In order to bring out KKt — B3 without being subjected to an exchange by the 
reply Kt^-KR4. 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

P-Q4 
KKt^B3 
P— K3 
B— K2 
P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
QKt-Q2 
0—0 
KtxKt 
Kt— K sq. 
P— Kt3 
P— KB3 
P— KB4 (b) 
B— B3 
Kt— Kt2 (d) 
RxB 
P— QR4 
R— KB sq. 
K^-K sq. 
Kt— Q3 

21R— Kt2 
22 P— B3 
23B— B2 

24 K— R2 

25 P— KKt 4 

26 OR— KKt sq. 
27P— Kt5 

28 Q— K sq. 

29 P— KR4 

30 Kt— B3 

31 B— Q sq. 
32P— R5 

33 R— R sq. 

34 K— Kt sq. 

35 Kt— K5 
36BxP 
37BxB 
38 R— R6 
39Q— R4 
40PxP 
41R-R2 

42 Kt— Kt 6 ch. 

P— B4 (e) 
P— B5 
R— QB sq. 
R— QB2 
R— Kt2 
R^B3 
R— Bsq. 
P— Kt4 
Kt— B2 (/) 
B— B3 
B— Ksq. 
Kt-Q3 
PxP 
Kt— K5 
K-R sq. (g) 
QR— Kt sq. 
QxB 
Q— K2 
P— Kt5 
PxP 
P— B6 

(/') 

Resigns. 

MASON 8 GAMES. 

309 

(6) Not good. B — Q3 was his right play. 

(r) Kt — B3 would have secured possession of the hole in the centre with one of 
the minor pieces. 

(//) Whereas now Black ought to have exchanged Bishops, thus planting an 
adverse Pawn on the weak point of his game, which was anyhow better than 
to allow an adverse minor piece to occupy that square. He had then also free 
hand for an attack on the Q side, while White was much hampered with a 
doubled Pawn in the centre. 

(t ) This ought to have been done long ago, and he ought to have systematically 
pushed the Pawns on the Q side with the view of effecting a breach on the 
QKt file by the ultimate advance of P— QKtS. 

(/')The plan indicated in our last comment was in time almost at every move 
since our last remark and would have given him the better game. But Black 
wastes his energies with unnecessary defensive tactics. 

(f/) Just the square which he ought to have avoided, for he gets squeezed up with 
his King. He ought to have still pursued the plan of attack on the Q side, 
such as he institutes three moves later, at a time, however, when the 
opponent has been enabled already, chiefly owing to the present text move, 
to concentrate all his forces irresistible against Black's King. 

{h) W^hite's final formation of the K side attack is incapable of improvement. 

Game No. 243. 

Played in the second round, May 7th. 

STONEWALL OPENING. 

White 
J. M. Hanham. 

1P-Q4 
2P— KB4 
3KKt^B3 
4P— K3 
5B— Q3 
6P— B3 

7 QKt^Q2 

8 0—0 
9Q— K2 

10 R— K sq. 
IIB— B2 
12 Kt— K5 

Black 

J. Mason. 

P— KB4 
KKt— B3 
P— K3 
B— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
B— K2 
0—0 
Q— K sq. 
Kt^KS 
P-Q3 
P— Q4 (a) 
P— B4 

13 QK1^B3 

14 P— KKt 4 
15P— Kt5 
16Q— Kt2 
ITKtxKt 
18R— K2 

19 Kt— B3 

20 B— Q2 

21 B— K sq. 

22 P— KR4 

23 B— Q sq. 
24Q— E3 
25B^R2 
26P— R5 
27B^Kt2 

P— B5 
P— QKt4 
QKt— B3 
KtxKt 
P— Kt3 
B— Q3 
P— QR4 
P— Kt5 
B— R3 
B— Kt4 
R— B sq. (b) 
K— Kt2 
R— KR sq. 
Q-K2 
Q— QB2 

(a) Inconsistent with his last move. He had no need to form a hole at his K4, 

and P — QB4 was quite safe and good. 
(6) Black has ably pursued the Q side attack, but, as usual, the QKt file is the one 

on which he will be likely to force a breach, and he ought to have occupied 

the same at once by B — QKt sq. 

310 

MASON 8 GAMES. 

28 P— E6 ch. 
29Kt— Q2 

30 Kt— B3 

31 B— QB2 

32 Kt— K6 

(c) 

K— B2 
KK— Qsq. 
K-K2 
QBr-Kt sq. 
B— K sq. 

33BxKt 
34Q— KtS 
36BPxB 

QPxB 

BxKt(cO 

Drawn. 

(c) Useless, and even bad. His only chance of counter-attacking the adverse 
operations on the other wing consisted in his keeping a menace open on the 
• K side which he now deliberately closes for all his pieces. 

((/) Playing for a draw and hardly much called for, considering the strength of his 
position on the Q wing and the security of his own King in companson with 
the unsettled position of the hostile monarch. After 84. . .B— Kt 4 we would 
have greatly preferred Black's game. 

Game No. 244. 

Played in the second round, May 18th. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

White 

J. Mason. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt-B3 
3B— B4 
4P-<3e 
5 0—0 
6B— KtS 

7 P— KB3 (a) 

8 Kt^K sq. 

9 P— QB3 
lOB— B2 

11 P-Q4 

12 P— Q6 (6) 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

P— K4 
P-Q3 
P— QB3 
B— K2 

0-0 
QK1^Q2 
P-QR4 
Kt— B4 
Kt— K3 
Q— B2 
K<^B4 

13 P— B3 
14PxP 

15 Kt— R3 

16 P— QB4 

17 Ki^Q3 
18BxKt 
19Q— B2 
20 B— Q2 
21Kt— Kt5 

22 K— E sq. 

23 Kt— B3 

24 QR— K sq. 

25 B— B sq. 

26 Kfr-K4 

Giyen up 

PxP 

Kt-Ksq. 
P— B4 
P— B5 
KtxKt 
B— Qsq. 
P— KKt3 
Q— K2 
B— Kt 3 ch. 
B— Q2 
Kt— Kt2 (c) 
Q— R5 
Kt— R4 
B— Q5 
as drawn, (d) 

(a) As usual, useless and injurious. Later on, when he is under the necessity of 
advancing P — KB8, a hole is formed at his KKt8 that causes him g^reat 
trouble. 

(6) Premature, at least, and hardly good. Kt — QB8 or B— K8 were much better. 

(c) Black has developed his locked-up forces with great skill, and he is quite safe 
on the Q side, while he has the best of the game on the other wing. 

(d) An unsatisfactory termination. We believe that Black had the superiority on 
the K side and could soon establish an effective attack by the advance of 
P— KKt4. 

MASON S OAJIES. 

Game No. 245. 

ajed in the first round, April 11th. 

RUY 

LOPKZ 

Black 

25BxR 

B— K4 

J. Mason. 

26 P QKtS 

27 K— B sq. 

K— K3 
K-Q4 

P— K4 

28K— K2 

P— Kt6 

QKt-B3 

29 PxP 

BPxP 

Kt-B3 

30 K— K3 (/) 

P— R6 

B— K2 

31 P— QB4 ch. 

K— K3 

PxP 

32 P— B4 

P-R6 ig) 

Kt— K5 

33PxP 

PxP 

Kt— B4 

34B— Kt3 

B-Q3 
K— B3 

KtxKt 

35 K— K4 

0—0 

36B— R2 

B— B4 

Kt— K3 

37 K— B3 

K— B4 

Kt— B4 (a) 

38K— Kt3 

B— Q3 

P— Q4 

39 K— B3 

P-R3 

BxP 

40 B Kt3 

B R6 

KtxKt 

41 B R2 

B— B4 

P— KB4 (6) 

42K— Kt3 

B K6 

B-Q2 

43 K— B3 

B-Q7 

QxB 

44B— Kt3 

P — B3 

Q B2 

46 P— R4 (A) 

B— Kt5 

KTl— K sq. 

46 B R2 

B— B4 (t) 

47K— Kt3 

K-K5 

P— KKt4 

48KxP 

K Q6 

P— KE4 

49 K— Kt4 

K-B6 

RxR 

50 P— B5 U) 

KxP 

ExRch. 

51P-B6 

KxBP 

311 

White 

M. Judd. 

IP— K4 
2KK1H-B3 
3B— Kt5 
4 0—0 
6P— Q4 
6P— K6 
T- B— K sq. 
8KtxP 
9QxKt 

10 K1H-B3 

11 Q— K4 
12Q— K2 

13 P X P en pass. 

14 Kt^K4 
ISQxKt 
16 Q— K2 (c) 
17BxB 
18 Q— B4 ch. 
19QxQcL 
20B— Q2 
21B— B3 
22 P— KR3 (e) 
23RxR 
24 R-^K sq. 

(a) Black wastes time in the developemeut, P — QB8, followed by P — Q4, was 

better. 
(6) His centre becomes weak after this advance, P— QB8 was the right play, 
(c) Q — B8 was superior. 
{d) Black has outmanoeuvred his opponent, and he has now the better game with 

his King more ready for tkction in the centre. • 

(e) His last move and this were useless for his plan of exchanging Rooks, which 
he might have instituted at once. 

(f) P — KKt 8 was now necessary in order to avoid the danger of the opponent 
forming a strong passed Pawn. 

(g) Excellent play, as it gives Black winning chances. 

(A) This advance endangers bis game. He ought to have confined himself to 

moving his Bishop backward and forward. 
{i) Black is forming a beautiful plan. He threatens now B — Kt 8 in case White 

move B— Kt 8. 
{j) A much surer draw could have been effected by playing the King up to K6 

via KB5. 

312 

52 K— B5 

53 B— B7 (k) 

54 P— R5 
55B— K5 

56 B— B3 

57 K— K6 

58 PxPenpass. KxP 

MASONS 

GAMES. 

K Q4 

59 K— B7 

B-^B4 

B-B9q.(0 

60K— K8 

K-B3 

P— B4 

61 P— B7 

K-Q4 

P— B5 

62B— B6 

K— K3 

K— B3 

63B— B3 

B— Q3 

P— Kt4 

64 B— K sq. 

Drawn. 

(/•) A most injudicious waste of time. P— Ro at once was his only salvation. 

(/) Black does not take proper advantage. The right play was P— Kt4, forming 
two powerful coinbine(i passed Pawns that would have won without much 
difficulty. Now, no more than a draw can be obtained by force. 

Game No. 240. 

Played in the second round, May 11th. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENIN(i. 

White 
J. Mason. 

IP— Q4 

2B— B4 

3BxKt 

4PxP 

5Kt— B3 

6P— K4 

7B— Kt5ch 

8PxP 

9 P— Q6 ch. 
10 Q— Q2 (ft) 
IIB— Q3 

12 KK1H-K2 

13 Q— B4 
14PxKt(d) 
15KtxB 

16 K— K2 

17 QK— Kt sq. 

18 KBr-Q sq. 

19 Q— B7 ch. 
20Q— Kt3 

21 K— B sq. 

22 P— B3 

23 QR— K sq. 

24 Q— B4 

(a) 

Black 
M. Judd. 

P-Q4 
P-QB4 
RxB 
Q— B4ch. 
P— K3 
BxP 
K— K2 
Kt— B3 
BxP 
B— Kt5 
R— Qsq. 
K1H-K5 
KtxKt(c) 
BxPch. 
QxKtch. 
B-Q2 
B— B3 
P— KR3 
K— K sq. (e) 
QK— B sq. 
R— Q4 
QRn-Q sq. 
K— B sq. 
R— Q5 

25 Q— B7 

26 Q— K5 
27QxQ 
28 Rr-Kt 3 
29R— R3 

30 R^-QKt sq. 

31 K— K2 

32 K— K3 
33R— Kt2 
34B— K2 

35 B— Q3 

36 K— Q2 

37 R— Kt4 

38 P— R4 
39R^-Q4 
40RxR 
41PxP 

42 B— B sq. 
43R^KR4 
44 R— B4 ch. 
45R— KR4 
46B— B4 
47P— Kt3(/) 
48B— Kt3 

49 R— R sq. 

50 B— B4 

51 Resigns. 

Q— Q7 
Q-B5 
RxQ 
B-Q4 
P— R3 
R^Bsq. 
R— B2 
P— KKt4 
P— KR4 
R— KB4 
R— K4 ch. 
R— QB4 
B— B3 
K— K2 
R— R4 
RxR 
RxKtP 
R— R4 
K— B3 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt3 
K— Kt4 
BxP 
B— Kt5 
R— K4 
B-B6 (g) 

HABON 8 QAXES. 

313 

(a) He ou^ht to have stuck to the Pawn which formed his only compensation for 
the adverse superior development. Nor can we see any danger for White 
after 9PxP, 9 Kt^KS (or9...QBxP; 10 Kt— K2, lOKR^Qsq.: 11 Q— B 
sq., and should maintain his Pawn); 10 Q— Q5, 10 BxP ch.; 11 K— B sq., 11 
Kt— B3 (if 11 . . .Kt X Kt; 12 Q— KKt 5 ch., w^ith an excellent attack); 12 Q— 
Q3, 12 B— Kt 8; 18 Px P, etc. 

(b) This trap compromises his game. Kt — K2 was the correct play. 

(r) Black has beautifully jiarried the opponent's attack and has assumed a strong 

oflfensive which wins a Pawn at least. 
iff) If 14 Q X R, 14 Kt- Q4 disch. ; 15 P— QB3, 15 B— Q3; 16 Q-R8, 16 Ktr-Kt 8, 

and wins. 
(e) K — B sfi. was preferable. 
(/) Probably an oversight, but he could not hold out for long either after 47 R— 

R3, 47 P— Ro. 
(g) Quite decisive, for he threatens K— Kt 5, and if White answer R— R4, the 

reply R— K5 forces the exchange of Rooks. Black's play throughout this 

gaine is highly commendable. 

Game No. 347. 

Played in the first round, April 3d. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

White 
N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 

2P— QB3 

3Kt— B3 

4P— Q4 

5P— K5 

6PxP 

7Kt— B3 

8B— Q3 

9B— K3 
10 0—0 
IIP— KE3 

Black 

J. Mason. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 (a) 
Kt— B3 
PxP 

Kt— KKt sq. 
P-Q4 
B— QKt5 
P— KB3 
KKt— K2 
B— B4 
B— Kt3 

12 P— QB4 (6) 
13B— B2 
14 KK1^E2 
16 P— B4 

16 K1H-K2 

17 P— KKt 4(c) 
18Kt— Kt3 
19P— Kt3(rf) 
20KtxP 
21PxB 
22P— Kt5 

23 Kt-j-E sq. (c) 

24 Resigns. 

P— R3 
B— K3 
Q-Q2 
0—0—0 
QR— Kt sq. 
P— B4 
P— Kt3 
PxP 
BxKt 
P— KR4 
Q-R6 
QxBch. 

(a) The authorized move, P— Q4, is stronger. 
(6) This weakens the Q side. 

(c) Rather hazardous in the face of the hostile attacking arrangements on the 
same wing. 

(d) K — R sq. was now the right play. 

(e) Of course a grave blunder. K — B2 or R— B8 left him still with a good game. 

314 

MASON S GAMES. 

Game No. 248. 

Played in the second round, April 29tb. 
PHILIDOB'S DEFEN'CE. 

White 

J. Mrtson. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 • 
3P-Q4 
4QxP 
5 B— QKt 5 
6BxKt 
7B— Kt5 

8 Kt— B3 

9 0—0—0 
10 P— KR3 (a) 
llKtxKt 
12QxB(c) 

13 K— Kt aq. 

14 P— KR4 

15 Q— Q3 

16 P— KKt 4 
17P— Kt6 
18P— E5 

19 Q-Q5 
20QxQBP 

21 Q— Q5 

22 Q— Q3 
23KtxB 
24 P— KB4 
25QxQP 
26RxQ 

Blmlc 
N. Maclx'otl. 

P— K4 
P-Q3 
PxP 
QKt— B3 
B-Q2 
BxB 
K<^B3 
B— K2 
0-0 
KtxP(6) 
BxKt- 
BxBch. 
B— B3 
R— Ksq. 
P— QKt 4 ((7) 
P— QR4 
B— K4 
P— R5 
P— B3 {e) 
R— QB sq. 
R— B4 
P— Kt5 
QRxKt 
R— K6 
QxQ 
R— KB ch. 

27 R— Q sq. 
28RxR 

29 R— KB sq. 

30 K— B sq. if) 
31PxP 

32 P— R6 

33 PxP 

34 R— B4 

35 K— Q2 
36RxP 

37 K— Q3 

38 P— B4 

39 K— Q4 

40 K— B5 

41 K— Q5 

42 PxP 
43R— Kt7ch. 
44R— KB7 
46 P— B5 

46 K— Q6 

47 K— B6 

48 R— B8 ch. 
49RxP 
50K— Kt6 
51 P— B6 
52R^B7 
53R^Kt7ch. 
54R— QR7 
55 R— R8 ch. 

RxKR 
R— K5 
P— R3 
PxP 
R— R5 
PxP 
RxP 
R— R8 ch. 
R— QR8 
RxP 
K— B sq. 
K— K2 
K— Q2 (f/) 
P— B4 
P— R6 {h) 
RxP 
K— B sq. 
R— KB6 (0 
P— B6 
R— Q6 ch. 
P— B6 
R^Qsq. 
K— Kt sq. 
R — R sq. 
R^Kt sq. 
R— Ksq. 
K— B sq. 
K— Q sq. 
Resigns. 

(a) Usually di.sadvantogeous, as often pointed out, and quite bad here as it costs 

a Pawn. 
(6) Very well played. 
(c) If 13 BxB, 18 Q X B; 18 KR— K sq., 13 P— KB4; 14 Kt— Q2, 14 Q— B2, 

threatening Q x EP, etc. 
(f/)Much better was 15...P— B3, for if 16QxP, 16 Q— Kt 3; 17 Q— R3! (if 17 

P— CiKt 3, 17 Q -Rt, with a fine attack), 17. . .Q x BP, etc. 
(e) Black selects the best move for the defence, as White threatened P — Kt 6. 
(/) P X P first was much better. 
{g) K — Q3 was the right play on principle in order to keep the adverse King at a 

further distance a.s long as possible. 
(h) 41. . .P— B5 first was the right play, for if 42 K— K4, 42 K— B3; 48 R— Kt 5, 

48 P— R6; 44 P X P, 44 R X P, and draws with ease. 

MASON 8 GAMES. 

315 

(I) Black has made a splendid fight, especially considering the strength of his 
o pponent, and he had still a draw now by rights of the position, but he 
allows himself to be caught jiow^ by his shrewd opponent. After 44 . . . K— Q 
sq. ; 45 K X P, 45 R— R4 ch. ; 46 P— B5, 46 K— R8. Black could prevent loss by 
subsequent good play. 

Game No. 249. 

Played in the first round, April 10th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

J. Mason. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
SB— B4 
4P-Q3 
5P— B4 
6Kt— B3 
7 P— B5 (o) 
8PxP 
9 0-0 
lOPxKt 

11 R— Kt sq. 

12 K— B sq. 

13 Kt— Q2 (c) 
14BxB 

15 Q— B3 

16 Q— K2 
17QxP 
18 Q— Kt3 

Black 

D. M. Martinez. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
P— KR3 
B— Kt5 
P-Q3 
P-Q4 
KtxP 
KtxKt 
KBxP 
0-0 
Q— B3 (6) 
BxKt 
Kt— K2 
QxP 
Q— Q2 
Kt— Kt3 
Kt— R sq. 

19 B— B3 

20 QxP 

21 P— KR3 
22BxB((0 
23QxKtP 
24Q— Kt2 
25ExQ 

26 B— R5 

27 P— Q4 

28 P— B3 
29R— B5 
30 R-QB6 
31ExKt 

32 P— B4 

33 K— R2 

34 KR— Kt6 (e) 

35 P— Q5 
36R-QB6 ' 
37 P— Q6 
38R— R2 

39 P— B5 

Q— Kt5 
B— K3 
Q— Kt3 
QxB 
QxQRP 
QxQ 
KR— B sq. 
Kt— Kt3 
R— B5 
R— R5 
Kt— K2 
Kt— B3 
RxB 
R— R8ch. 
P— QR4 • 
K— B sq. 
R— QB8 
P— R5 
P— R6 
K— K sq. 

R-R4(/) 

(a) Chiefly in consequence of Black^s weak 3d move White had obtained an 

early superiority of position, provided that he reserved the option of opening 

the KB file. The advance in the text, however, not alone abandons his 

advantage but costs a valuable Pawn besides. 
(6) 12. . .B X P would have increased his superiority. For' if 13 Rx P, 13 Kt— R4, 

with a fine game, whereas after the move in the text his position becomes 

much inferior. 
{c) An excellent move that gives White the attack again. 
id) Much stronger was 33 R— B3, 23 QR— B sq.; 23 Q— KB4, threatening R— Kt3, 

etc. 
{e) Lo.ss of valuable time which, in fact, deprives him of a victory that could 

have been secured by the persistent advance of his centre Pawns, 
(/ ) Black has made a masterly defence and now equalizes matters to the extent 

that, though he remains a Pawn behind, he can draw with common care. 

316 

40 R— B8 ch. 

41 R— B7 ch. 
42RxBP 
43RxKtP 
44E^KB2 
45RxR 
46B^-QR7 
47RxP 
48K— Kt3 
49 K— B8 
50P— Kt3 
51 K— B4 
52K— Kt4 
63 K— B4 
54K— K4 
55P— R4 
56R^R5 

57 R^KB5 

58 K— B3 
59R— K5 
60K— B4 
61R— K4 

MASONfi 

1 GAMES. 

K Q2 

62 P— Kt 4 

R^B3 ch. 

K— Q aq. 

63 K— K5 

R-B8 

KRxP 

64R-Q4 

R— K8 ch. 

R— Q4 

65K— B4 

R^B8 ch. 

R-KB4 

66K— Kt3 

R-B3 

RxR 

67 P— R5 ch. 

K— Kt2 

R-Q4 

68 R— Q7 ch. 

K— Kt sq. 

RxP 

e9R— QR7 

R^B8 

R— Kt3cb. 

70R-R5 

K— Kt2 

K— K sq. 

71 R-KB5 

R— Kt 8 ch 

K— B sq. 

72 K— B4 

R— K8 

R— B3 ch. 

73R— R5 

R— K2 

R-Kt3ch. 

74R— R6 

R— QB2 

R— B3 ch. 

75R^Kt6ch. 

K— R2 

B^BB 

76R— K6 

K— Kt2 

R-B7 

77 K— B5 

R-B4 

K— Kt2 

78R— K6 

R— B2 

Q— QR7 

79 K— K6 

R B5 

K— Kt3 

80 K— B5 

R B2 

R— R6 ch. 

81R— Q6 

R— B2 ch. 

R-R6ch. 

82 K— K6 

R— B5 

R— R3 

DrawD. 

Game No. 250. 

Played in the second round, May 10th. 

PETROFFS DEFENCE. 

mite 

D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 
2KK<^B3 
3KtxP 
4 KKt— B3 
5P-Q4 
6B— Q3 

7 0—0 

8 P-QB4 
9Kt— B3 

10 B-K3 (a) 

11 R— QB sq. 
12QxKt 
13QxP 

14 Q— Kt 3 

Black 

J. Mason. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
P— Q3 
KtxP 
P— Q4 
QKt— B3 
B— K2 
Kt— B3 
0—0 
QKt— Kt5 
KtxB 
PxP 
P— B3 
Q— Kt3 

15 Q— B2 

16 Kl^KS 
17P— KB3 
18 P— QR3 
19QxB 
20PxQ 
21 B— Q2 
22Kt— Q3 

23 Kt-B5 

24 KR^K sq. 

25 K— B2 
26RxRch. 
27 R— K sq. 
28KxR 

29 B— B sq. 

30 K— B2 

31 P— KR4 

Q-R4 
B— K3 
B— QKt6 
BxKt 
QxQ 

P— B3 

P— QKt 4 (6) 
B— B2 
KR^K sq. 
Kl^Kt3 
RxR 
RxR 
Kt— B5 
B-Q4 (c) 
K— B2 
P— KKt4 

MASON S OAICES. 

317 

32PxP 
33P— Kt4 

PxP 
P— KE3 

34K— Kt3 P— QR4 

Drawn. 

(a) 10 P— B5, and if 10. . .P— QKt8; 11 QKt— R4 was more worthy of consider- 
ation. 

(6) With this advance Black weakens the Pawns on the Q side. Much better was 
23.. .Kt— Kt8, for if 23 Kt-Bo, 28 B— B5, followed by R— B2. 

(c) The game, which has been rather uneventful all through, soon resolves itself 
into a drawn position. 

Game No. 251. 

Played in the second round, May 20th. 

PETROFFS DEFENCE. 

White 

D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3KtxP 
4Kt-B3 
5P— Q4 
6B— Q3 

7 0— O 

8 B^K sq. 

9 QKt— B3 (a) 
lOB— B4 

11 Kt-K2 

12 Kt— Kt 3 

Black 

J. Mason. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
P-Q3 
KtxP 
P— Q4 
B— K2 
0—0 
Kt— Q3 
P— QB3 
B— K3 
Kt— Q2 
E— Ksq. 

13 Kt-K5 Kt— KB sq. 

14 QR— Kt sq. (b) 

B— KKt4 

15 Q— B3 

16QxB 

17PxQB3 

18Q— R4 

19K<H-Kt4 

20QxB 

21 P— KB3 

22 K— B2 
23RxE 
24BxB 

Drawn, (c) 

BxB 
Q-B2 
QR— Bsq. 
P— KB3 
BxKt 
QR— Q sq. 
Q— KB2 
BxR 
R— Ksq. 
QxR 

(a) 9 P— QKtS, 9 B— K8; 10 Kt— Q2, with the view of forcing on the advance of 

the QBP, were more promising. 
(6) Hardly of the least use, even if intended as a waiting move. 
(c) There was no more in the game for some tiihe. 

318 

MASON 8 GAMES. 

Game No. 252. 

Played in the first round, April 9th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 
W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 

2 KK^-B3 

3B— B4 

4P— B3 

5P— Q3 

6B— K3 

7 QKt— Q2 

8Q— Kt3 

9 0—0—0 (a) 
10 P— Q4 
llKtxP 
12PxP 

13 B— Q3 

14 P— B3 
15P— Kt4 

Black 

J. Mason. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 
Kt— B3 
P-Q3 
B— Kt3 
Kt— K2 
0—0 
P— B3 
PxP(A) 
P-Q4 
PxP 
B— Kt5 
B— KR4 
B— Kt3 

16BxB 

17 K— Kt sq. (c) 

18 Kt— B sq. 

19 Kt— B5 
20QKtxB 
21 P— Kt 5 (rf) 
22PxKt 
23KtxQP 
24 K— R sq. 
25QxP 

26 KR— Kt 8q.'(fi) 

27 P— QR3 

28 P— B4 

29 QR— Kt sq. 
30Q— Kt4 
31 QR— QB sq. 
32KP^K8q. 

Drawn 

KtxB 
R— Ksq. 
Q-Q2 
BxB 
R-K4 
RxKt 
RxP(B6) 
Q— B4 ch. 
PxP 
R— Ksq. 
K— Kt2 
R— B7 
QR^K7 
Q-Q6 
R— K5 
RxRP 

(/) 

(a) Rather bold, for we believe that Black has the first chance of instituting an 

attack after this. 
(6) 10. . .Kt— Kt5; 11 Kt— B sq., 11 P— Q sq. were superior, 
(c) Hardly necessary for pursuing his attack. Kt— B sq. at once was preferable. 
{d) White conducts the attack remarkably well. 
(e) This and the next move are superfluous. A systematic advance of the QBP 

was more likely to succeed, as Black could form no attack in the meanwhile. 
(/) Black makes the better bargain, for after 32 Q— B3 we still prefer \NTiite\s 

game. 

Gam^ No. 253. 
Played in the second round, May 8th. 

RUY 

LOPKZ, 

White 

Black 

3B Kt5 

P— QR3 

J. Mason. 

W. H. K. PoUock. 

4B R4 
5P— Q3 

Kt— B3 
B— B4 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

6P— B3 

P— QKt4 

2 KK<^B3 

QKt— B3 

7B Kt3 

P— Q4 

mason's games. 

319 

8Q— K2 
9B— KKt5(a) 
lOPxP 

11 QK1^Q2 

12 Kt— B sq. 

13 B— E4 (c) 

14 B— B2 {d) 

15 P— QR3 («) 

16 B— Q3 

17 P-R3 (/) 
18P— Kt4 

19 R— Q sq. 

20 Kt— Q4 (A) 
21BxKt(B4) 
22RxR 
23PxP 
24B— R2 

25 B— KKt 3 

26B— Ktsq. 0') 
27QxQ 

(P) 

0—0 
PxP 
Q-K2 
R— Kt sq. 
P— KR3 
Kt— QR4 
P— Kt5 
P— Kt6 
R— Kt3 
R— Qsq. 
R(Kt3)— Q3 
Kt-B5 (g) 
PxKt 
PxP 
QxR 
r— Kt7 
KtxKP 
Q— K3 (0 
Kt X QBP 
R— Q8 mate. 

Position after Black's 25tb move 

Q-K3 

Black— W. H. K. Pollock. 

White — J. Mason. 

(a) The pinning is usele.ss and even disadvantageoas under the circumstances 
that Black's KB isstill in communication with the K side and White is liable 
to be driven back and cut off from his Q wing, as happens. QKt— Q'-i wa.s 
better. 

(6) P — KB3 was preferable now that White could have been compelled either to 
exchange or to fall back on the K side at R4. 

(c) He would have done better to retreat B — Q2. 

(d) Here is an instance to show that B— B3 is generally preferable in this form of 
opening on the 7th move. 

(e) Ingenious, as Black obviously dare not capture either Pawn without sub- 
jecting himself to the loss of a piece by the reply P— QKt4. 

iJ") White fails to see through the adverse highly ingenious scheme. Kt — K3, 

with the view of Castling, was his only good play. 
(g) Ingenious and powerful. He threatens Kt x QKtP. 
(h) There was hardly anything better, bad as this is. 
(i) A regular gem of a game on Mr. Pollock's part. The termination is charming. 

See diagram. 
(J) If 36 Q X P, 86 Kt X QBP disch., followed by B— QS mate ; and, of course, if 

26 B X Q, 26 P queens ch. , and mates next move. 

320 

MASON S GAMES. 

Game No. 254. 

Played in the first round, May 26th. 

GIUOCO 

PIANO. 

W/iite 

Black 

15 Kt— K4 (b) 

Kt^B3 

J. Masou. 

J. \V. Showalter. 

16KtxBP 

17 P-Q4 

18 Kt— K4 

Q— Kt3 
P— K5 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

Kt— K2 

2KKt B3 

QKt— B3 

19Q— Kt3 

P— KR3 

3B— B4 

B B4 

20 Kt— Kt 6 

K1^B4 (c) 

4P— Q3 

P Q3 

21BxKt 

BxR 

5B— K3 

B Kt3 

22 Kt— K7 ch. 

K— R2 

6P— B3 

K<^B3 

23KtxB 

P— Kt3 

7 QKt-Q2 

0-0 

24 Kt— Q6 

K1^R4 

8B Kt3 

K^-K2 

25 Q— K5 

Q B2 

9Kt— B4 

BxB 

26 R— KB sq. 

P— B3 

lOPxB 

Kt^KtS 

27 Q— Q5 

QR— Q sq. 

110—0 

P— Kt4 

28 Kt— K6 (d) 

Q— K2 (e) 

12 QKt— Q2 

P— B4 

29KtxKcb. 

QxKt 

13 Q— K sq. 

P-Q4(o) 
KtxP 

30Q— Kt7ch. 

K— Rsq. 

14PxP 

31 Kt— B7 ch. 

Resigns. 

(a) The game was fairly conducted by Black and about even up to this point, but 

the text move is an error that costs a Pawn. 
(6) With fine perception White seizes the winning advantage. 
(c) His game was bad, no doubt, and he could not much stir with any of hi» 

pieces, even after the best defence at his dissposal, namely, 20. ..KtxKt : 21 

Q X Kt. The loss of two minor pieces for the Hook, to which he now subjects 

himself, makes matters evidently worse. 
{d) As could only be expected, Mr. Mason has carried on the attack with precision 

and energy after he had gained a piece, and he now brings the game to 

a decisive conclusion. 
{€) If 28 Q X Kt, 28 Q X Q, followed by Kt x R ch. 

Game No. 255. 
Played in the second round, April 19th. 

FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 
J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2P-Q4 

Black 
J. Mason. 

P— K3 
P— Q4 

3 B— Q3 (a) 

4PxQP 

5PxP 

6 KKt— B3 

7 0—0 

P— QB4 (b) 
KPxP(c) 
BxP 
KKt— B3 
0—0 

KASON S OAICES. 

321 

8 Kt~B3 

9 B— KB4 

10 P— QR3 

11 Q— Q2 (d) 

12 KB— K sq. 

13 PxB 

14 K— Kt2 

15 B— K5 (e) 

16 Q— B4 
17RxKt 

18 QxQ 

19 P— B4 

20 K— B3 

21 K— Kt3 
22KxKt 

23 B— KB sq. 
24KtxP 

25 K— Kt2 

26 P— Kt4 

27 KtxP 

28 Kt— Kt6 
29KxB 

P— KR3 
Kt— B3 
B— KKt5 
R— Ksq. 
BxKt 
Kt— Q5 
Q-Q2 

KtxKBP(/) 
KtxRch. 
Q— Kt 5 ch. 
KtxQ 
P— B3 
KtxPch. 
PxB 
PxP 
B— Q3 
QR— B sq. 
R— B4 
QR— B sq. 
R— KB sq . 
RxR 

Rr-B6 

30B— K4 
31K1^R4 
32P— Kt5 
33 Kt— B5 
34K— Kt2 
35Kt-Kt3 
36B— Q3 

37 Kl^K4 ch. 

38 Kt^Q2 

39 Kt— Kt sq. 
40Kt— B3 

41 Kt— K2 ch. 

42 Kt— Kt 3 

43 Kt— K4 ch. 
44Ki^B6 

45 K— R2 
46K— R3 
47K— Kt2 

48 K— B sq. 

49 Resigns. 

K— B2 
RxRP 
P— QKt3 
B— B4 
K— B3 
P— Kt3 
P— Kt4 
K— K4 
K— B5 
R— R8 
P— Kt5 
K— Kt4 
P— KR4 
K— B5 
R— KKt8 

ch.(gr) ' 
P— Kt 6 ch. 
R— R8ch. 
R^RT ch. 
P— Kt 7 ch. 

(a ) Barelj adopted and not commendable. 

(6 ) .1 . . . P X P; 4 B X P, 4 KKt— B3 gives Black a good game at once. 

(e) If 4. . .Q X P, Professor Berger recommends 5 QKt — B8, 5 Q x QP (of course if 

5. . .Q X KtP, White's Queen is lost by the answer 6 B— K4); 6 Kt— B8, with a 

strong attack. 
id) Hardly a good plan in this position. 
(«) Dropping into a trap, after which the opponent has an easy task to win. B — . 

Kt 3 was his right play. 
(y) Fine play. Obviously White dare not take the Knight on account of the 

crushing rejoinder Q — Kt 5 mate. 
(ff) Direct to the point. 

Game No. 356. 

Played iu the first round, April 12th. 

KING'S BISHOP GAME. 

Wliite 

Black 

4P— Q3 

B Kt5 

J. Mason. 

J. Taubeuhans. 

5 Kt— B3 
6P— KR3 

U' 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

7 B— KKt 5 

BxKt 

2B— B4 

KKt— B3 

8PxB 

Q K2 

3 QKt-B3 

Kt— B3 

9Kt— Q2 

Kt— Qsq, 

322 

UASON S OAHES. 

10 Q— B3 (a) 

llBxKt 

12QxQ 

13 Kt— B sq. (b) 

UP— Kt 4(c) 

15 B— Kt 3 

16 Kt— K3 

17 P— B3 

18 K— K2 

19 K— Q2 

20 Kt— Kt 2 

21 K— K3 

22 P— QB4 (rf) 
23E— R2 

24 P— QB3 

25 QBr— E sq. 

26 P— Q4 

27 K— B2 
28K— Kt3 
29BPxP(e) 

30 P— Q5 

31 Ki^K3 

32 R— KKt sq. 

Kt— K3 
QxB 
PxQ 
Kt— Kt2 
B— K3 
KB— Qsq. 
P— B3 
K— B sq. 
B— Q2 
Kt— K3 
K— K2 
B— KKt sq. 
Kt— B4 
P— KR4 
R— R sq. 
R— R2 
Kt— R3 
QR— R sq. 
PxKtP 
Kt— B2 
Kt— K sq. 
Kt— Kt2 
R— KKt sq. 

33 K— B2 

34R— Kt3 

35 B— Q sq. 

36 B— B3 
37KPxP 

38 B— K4 

39 B— B5 
40P— KR4 

41 B— B2 

42 K— B3 

43 P— R5 
44P— R6 

45 B— Q3 

46 P— Kt 5 (A) 
47BxKt 

48 R^Kt sq. 
49RxP 
50R(Kt5)— R5 
51 K— K4 

R(Ktsq.)— 

R sq. 
Kt— K sq. 
Kt— B2 
PxP(/) 
Kt— R3 
R— R3 
R— QBsq. 
Kt— B4 
R(R3)— Rsq. 
P— Kt3 
Kt— Kt2 
Kt— R4 
P-Kt4(«/) 
KtxP 
PxB 
PxP 
B^R2 
P— B3 
R (B sq^- 

Lost by forfeit, (i) 

Kt sq. 

(a) Not as strong as 10 P— Kt3, 10 Kt— K8; 11 B— K3, with the view of ad- 
vancing P— KB4 or P— Q4. 

(6) 13 P — Kt3 would have prevented effectually the adverse strong i-eply ; for if 
then 13. . .Kt— Kt 2; 14 P — B4, with the superior game. 

(c) Whereas now White is compelled to form an inconvenient hole at his B4 in 
order to stop the advance of the adverse KBP, this KtP also becomes 
ultimately the mark of a hostile attack. 

(d) Weak. P — Q4 was much better. 

(e) He forms a pas.sed Pawn on the KR file, but it is of little use to him owing to 
the adverse King being close to it, whereas his weak Q side cannot so easily 
be supported. 

(/) We should have preferred blocking the centre by P — QB4 and then to com- 
mence operations by P — QR3, followed early by P — QKt 4. 

(g) After excellent preparations Black breaks in at the adverse weak point. 

(A) If 46 P X P, 46 R X BP, and either White's QKtP or QBP will soon fall. 

(t) The opponent had much the best of the game anvhow. The probable contin- 
uation was 52 K— B3 I (if 52 Ktx P, 52 R— Kt 5 ch.; 53 K- Q3, 53 B--QKt 4, 
and wins), 52 R— Kt3, followed soon by P — KB4, etc. 

MASONS GAMES. 

323 

tiame No. 257. 

Played in the second round, May 13th. 

PETBOPFS DEFENCE. 

White 

J. Taubenhaus. 

IP— K4 
2 KK^-B3 
3KtxP 
4 KKt— B3 
5P— Q4 
6B— Q3 

7 0—0 

8 P— B3 («) 

9 Kt— K sq. 
10 Q— B2 (b) 
IIP— KKt 3 
12K<^Kt2 
13 B— KB4 (c) 

Black 
J. Mason. 

P— K4 
KK<^B3 
P-Q3 
KtxP 
P-Q4 
QK1^B3 
B— K2 
0—0 
P— B4 
B— Q3 
K1^K2 
P— B3 
Kt— Kt3 

14BxB 

15 Kt— Q2 

16 Kt— B3 

17 QB^K sq. 
18RxR 

19 R— K sq, 

20 Kt (B3)— E4 
21KtxKt 

22 Kt— B3 

23 Kl^K5 
24EPxP 
25R— K3 
26BxB 
27QxQ 

Drawn. 

KtxB 
Q— B3 
B-Q2 

QB^K sq. (rf) 
RxR 
Kt— K5 
KtxKt . 
R— KB sq. 
P— B5 
PxP 
B— B4 
Kt— Kt4 
QxB 
RxQ 

(a) A new idea which we consider to be better, at any rate, than the old plan of 
advancing the QBP, which causes the isolation of the QP. 

(b) Much better was P— KB8, followed by B— B2 and Kt— Q8. Black's pieces 
were theii clustered together, with little chance of entering into White's game, 
while the latter had good prospects of obtaining command with his Hooks on 
the open K file, as well as of ultimate occupation of K5 with one of his minor 
pieces. 

{e) P — KB3 firet was preferable. 

(d) There is little scope for action on either side, and the general exchange that 
follows leads to a clear draw. 

Game No. 258. 

Played in the second round, May 21st. 
KING KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Wliite 
J. Mason. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 

Black 
J. Taubenhaus. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 

3B— B4 

4 P— Q4 (6) 

5 KtxP 

6 B— QKt 6 
7B— KB4 

P— B4 (a) 
PxKP(c) 
P-Q4 
Q— Q3 
Q— B3 

(a) Very hazardous in an important game against a strong opponent. 

{h) P— Q3 is, we think, the simplest plan to maintain the advantage, for White 

has the same position as in the King's Gambit Declined, with a move ahead. 
(c) Black could have made it more difficult for the opponent either by 4 . . . P — Q3 

324 

MASON S OAHEa 

8B— Kt3 

9P— B3 
lOQ— R4 
llKtxKt 
12 K<^K5 
13KtxB 
14B— K2 
15B— Kt4ch. 

16 K1^Q2 

17 B— 113 (e) 

18 0—0 
19B— K5 
20P— KKt3 

21 B— Kt2 

22 QR— K sq. 

B— Kt 5 ch. (<l) 
B— R4 • 
B— Kt3 
B-Q2 
P— B3 
KxKt 
Kt-K2 
K— K sq. 
P— KR4 
R— KB sq. 
P— Kt4 
Q— Kt3 
P— Kt5 
P— R5 
PxP 

23BPxP(/) 
24P— B4 
25 P— B5 (g) 
26PxB 
27 Q— Kt 3 
28QxKtP 
29QxPch, 
30PxKt 
31 K— R sq. 
32QxPcb. 

33 Q— Kt 7 

34 Q— KKt 7 

35 Q— B7 ch. 

36 Q— B4 ch. 

K-Q2 
Q— Kt4 
QxKt 
PxP 

Kt— Kt 3 (//) 
KtxB 
K— K3 
Q— Q5 ch. 
QxKP 
Q— Q3 
QR— Kt sq. 
I^-KKt sq. 
K— K4 
Resigns, (t) 

or 4. . .Kt— KB3 at this juncture. If, however, 4. . .KPxQP; 5 P— K5 leads 

to a position similar to the Falkbeer variation in the King's Gaml>it Declined, 

with a move ahead for White. 
(d) Loss of valuable time or of a piece is the consequence of this ill-considered 

development. QB — KB4 or Kt — K2 were his best defences, but he had already 

much the wo: st of the position. 
(«) His best plan was again to retreat B — K2, followed by Kt — B sq. 
(/) Betaking with the Bishop wins with less trouble. 
(ff) If 25 Q~Kt 4, 25 Q X B; 26 Q X B, 26 P X Q, winning the QRP, would make a 

hard fight of it. 
(h) He might have made a more stout resistance after P — QKt 4 instead. 
(i) For after 86. . .K— K3, follows 87 Q— B5 ch. and Q— B7 ch., winning a Rook. 

JUDD'S GAMES. 

Game No. 269. 

Played in the first round, March 26th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

M. Judd. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3 B— QKt 5 
4B— QR4 
5P— Q4 

6 0—0 

7 P— Q5 (a) 
8Q— K2 

9 P— KR3 
lOP— KKt4(6) 

11 Kt-R2 

12 Kt— Q2 
la P— KB3 
14Q— Kt2 
16B— Kt3 
16 P— QIU (c) 
17PxQKtP 
18 P— QB3 
19B— B2 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 
0—0 
Kt— Kt sq. 
P-Q3 
Kt— K sq. 
P— KR4 
B— Kt4 
B— B5 
Q— R5 
P— QKt4 
Kt— Q2 
B^QKt sq. 
QRPxP 
Kt— B4 
P— QKt5 

20PxP 
21 R— Q sq. 
22R^R3 

23 KKt— B sq. 

24 Kt— QKt 3 
25BxR 
26KtxB 
27B— K2 
28BxB 

29 R— QB3 
30QxQ 
31R^R3 
32RPxP 

33 Kt— R2 

34 B— B sq. 

35 K— R sq. 

36 K— Kt sq. 

37 K— R sq. 

38 K— Kt sq. 

39 K— R sq. 

40 K— Kt sq. 
41R— K3 

RxP 
B— QR3 
R— Q6 
K^-i3 
RxR 
BxB 
Q— K8 
QxKt 
R^QKt sq. 
QxP(rf) 
RxQ 
PxP 
Kt— R2 
Kt— Kt4 
R— QB7 
K— R2 
K— Kt3 
K— B3 
P— Kt3 
K— K2 
Kt-Q2 . 
K— Q sq. 

(a) Not as good as 7 R— K sq. 

(6) As usual such a premature attack leads to his discomfort on the K side. 

(c) Usually good, but not in his present undeveloped condition where he only 

helps the adverse attack with this move. P — QB3, followed by B — B3, was 

his best plan. 
((f) Black's conduct of the Q side attack and the manner in which he finally gains 

an important Pawn on that wing is highly commendable. 

326 

42 K— R sq. 

43 R— K3 
44BxKt 
45K— Kt2 
46K— Kt3 
47E— R2 
48K— Kt2 

49 K— KB2 

50 Kt^B sq. 
51Kt-Kt3 
52 Kt^B sq. 
63 Kt— R2 
54R— R2 
55 E— R4 ch. 
66K— Kt3(/) 
57 R-Kt4 
68K— Kt2 
59 R— Kt 3 
60PxP 
61K— Kt3 
62R— Kt2 

(e) Black's march with the King is very fine Chess. 

(/) Best. If 56 R^B4, 56 K— B5; 57 R x P, 57 R— Kt 7 ch. ; 58 K— R sq., 58 K— 

Kt 6; 59 Kt — B sq. ch., 59 K x BP, with a winning game. 
ig) After long and, in the main, very pertinent manoeuvring he has at last gaine<l 

this very important square for the Knight, whence he will occupy the still 

more commanding post at KBS. 
(A) A most remarkable and highly ingenious finish. 

JUDD8 

GAMES. 

Kt-Kt3 

63 R R2 

R— B6 

Kl^QB5 

64K— Kt2 

Kt-K3 ig) 

RxB 

65 E^R sq. ch. 

K-K7 

R^B8 

66 R— R2 ch. 

K— K6 

K Q2 

67K— Kt3 

Rr-B8 

R^QKtS 

68 R— R3 ch. 

K— K7 

K— B sq. 

69 R— R2 cb. 

K— K8 

K-Kt2 

70K— R4 

P— Kt4ch. 

K— Kt3 

71K— Kt3 

Kt— B5 

R-Kt6 

72R— QKt2 

R-Q8 

K— Kt4 

73 R R2 

R-Q7 

K— B5 

74 R— R sq. ch. 

K— K7 

K— Q5 

75 Kt— B sq. 

R — Q6 

K— K6 (e) 

76 Kt— R2 

R-Q8 

R B6 

77RxR 

KxR 

K— K7 

78 K— B2 

Kt— R6 ch. 

R-B7 

79K— Kt2 

K— K2 

P— QB3 

80KxKt 

K— B7 iji) 

K QSdisch. 

81 Kt— B sq. 

KxKt 

RxP 

82 K— Kt 3 

K— Kt8 

R— QBsq. 

83 Resigns. 

Game No. 260. 

Played in the second round, April 19th. 
FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

M. Judd 

IP— K4 

P— K3 

2P— Q4 

P-Q4 

3PxP 

PxP 

4 KKi^B3 

KKt— B3 

5B Q3 

B-Q3 

6 0-0 

0-0 

7 R— K sq. 

R— Ksq. 

8QB Kt5 

B— K3 

9 QKt— Q2 

10 P— B3 

11 K<^K5 
12B— Kt5 
13BxKt 
14Kt— Kt4 
15QxBch. 
16B— Q3 
17 B— B5 
18P-KKt3 
19 Kt— B sq. 

K1^Q2 
Kt— B sq. (fi) 
P— B4 ih) 
R^K2 
PxB 
BxKt 
Kt-Kt3 
P— B5 
Q— KB sq. 
K— R sq. 
QR— K sq. 

327 

20R— K3 
21 OR— K sq. 
22RxR 
23Q— K2 

24 B— B2 (c) 

25 K— Kt 2 

26 P— QR3 

27 Q— B3 

28 Q— K2 
29Q— R5 
30Q— K2 
31Q— R5 

32 R^B3 (d) 

33 Kt^K3 
34RPxP 

(a) 10. . .P— KR8; and if 11 B— R4, 11 P— B8, followed by Q— B2, was preferable. 
(6) An injudicious initiative of an attack which soon places his position at a 
disadvantage. 

(c) Long delay is caused after this in making his advantage clear. The much 
superior plan was to direct his attack against the weak QP by B — R8, followed 
by B — Kt 2. He could then also bring the Knight to bear against that Pawn 
at KS after removing Queen and Rook. 

(d) After some time limit repetitions White seizes the attack at the right point. 

(e) More simple and decisive was Kt — B0. 

(/)Just on the chance of an error, for in case White played 45 PxP, Black 
would win by P — Kt 7. 

JUDD8 

GAMES. 

t 

Q R3 

35Kt— Kt4 

P— B4 

RxR 

36BxP 

KtxB 

Kt— K2 

37RxKt 

K— B sq. 

Q— B sq. 

38R— Kt5(e) 

Q— Rsq. 

R— Qsq. 

39 K^-R6 

Q-B3 

P-Ktl 

40R— B5 

Q Kt3 

P QR4 

41RxPch. 

K— Esq. 
Q— K5 ch. 

Q Et2 

42 Q-K2 ch. 

Q— B sq. 

43QxQ 

PxQ 

Q Kt2 

44RxP 

P— Kt6 

Q— B sq. 

46 R QR7 

B Kt5(/) 

Q— Kt2 

46 Kt— B5 

R-Q4 

K— Kt sq. 

47 Kt— K3 

RxP 

P-Kt5 

48PxR 

P— B6 

PxP 

49 R— R sq. 

Resigns. 

Game No. 261. 

Plajed in the first ronnd, April 3d. 

KUY LOPEZ. 

White 

M. Judd. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
5 0—0 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 

6P— Q4 
7 R— K sq. (a) 
8B— Kt3 
9P— B3 

10 B— K3 (b) 

11 B— B2 

12 B— QB sq. 

13 P— QKt 3 

0-0 
P— QKt4 
P— Q3 
B— Kt5 
Kt— QR4 
Kt— B5 (c) 
Q— Q2 
Kt— Kt3 

(a) New, we believe, in this situation and stronger than the more usual PxP. 
(6) P — Q5, in order to weaken the adverse QBP, was better, 
(c) Here or on the next move Black ought to have advanced P— QB8 in order to 
secure his Q side. 

328 

JUDD S OAHE3. 

14 P— Q5 
15QxB 

16 Q— Q3 

17 R— K3 

18 P— KB3 (/) 
19RxP 

20 Q— K2 
21 P— QB4 
22 R— E4 
23PxP 

24 Kt-B3 

25 B— K3 

26 B— KB5 (/O 

27 Q— QB2 
28RxEt 

29BxKtO') 
30BxB 

31 Q— KB2 

32 K1^-K4 

33 R— Kt sq. 
34Q— Kt3 

BxKt(d) 
Q— Kt5 
KKt-Q2 
P— KB4 (e) 
PxP 
Q— Kt3 
Q-B2 

Kir-BS 

PxP 
QKt— Q2 
Kt— B4 
QK1^Q2 (g) 
K— R sq. 
Kl^KR4(t) 
QxR 
B— Kt4 
QxB 
R— B5 

!— Kt3 

JR— KB sq. 
Q— R3 

35 Q— Kt 5 

36KtxQ 

37 Kt— B7 ch. (jfc) 

38B— K6 

39KtxQPdiscli. 

40 Kt-B7 ch. 

41KtxKPdisch. 

42 Kt-^B7 ch. 

43 Kt— Q8 disch. 
44Kt-B6 

45 R^Kt 7 
46RxP 
47 K^-K7 
48B— B5(0 
49 K— B2 
50K— K3 
51KtxR 

52 P— Q6 

53 P— Q7 

54 Kt— Q4 

QxQ 
RxQBP 
K— Kt sq. 
R— B7 
K— Rsq. 
K— Kt sq. 
K— R sq. 
K— Kt sq. 
K— R sq. 
P— KR4 
R— B3 
RxRP 
P— KR5 
R— R8 ch. 
R— R7 ch. 
RxB 
R— R8 
R— Q8 
K— R2 
Resigns. 

(d) This exchange rather fortifies the opponent's ganie. 

(e) Altogether injudicious, in view of the attack to which he is afterward exi)osed. 
(/) Much better than 18 P x P, 18 Kt— QB4; 19 Q— Q stj. , followed by Kt x QP or 

B — Kt4, accordingly. 
ig) Kt—B4,' followed by P— Kt8, was his best defence. 

(h) This and the next move are excellently devised and lead to a winning position, 
(t) If 27...P— B8; 28BxP, aSPxB; 29RxPch., 89K— Kt8; 30B— Kt6, 

and wins. 
U) His victory is now only a question of time. 
(k) He regains, with large interest, the Pawn which he has very ingeniously 

sacrificed on the last move. 
(l) The termination is very pretty and is powerfully playetl by White. 

Game No. 262. 
Played in the second round, April 29th. 

CENTRE 

GAMBIT. 

White 

Bltwk 

4 Q— K3 (a) 

P— KKt 3 (b) 

J. W. Baird. 

M. judd. 

5B B4 
6 KKt-B3 

B— Kt2 
P-Q3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

7 Q— QKt 3 

Q— K2(c) 

2P Q4 

PxP 

8 0-0 

Kt— Qsq. 

3QxP 

QKt— B3 

9Kt— B3 

PQ— B3 

JXJDD S GAMES. 

329 

10 P— QE4 

11 B— Q2 
12QxB 
13 Q— Q3 
14KKt— Kt5 

15 QB^Q sq. 

16 K<^B3 

17 B— K3 (d) 

18 Kt— Q4 

19 Q— K2 
20P— B4 
21 B— B sq. 
22KtxKP 
23 Q— B3 
24P— R3 
25 Q— QKt3 
26Kt— Kt3 
27 K— R sq. 
28P— B4 
i}9Kt— B3 
30KtxKt 
31 K— R2 
32Q— Q3 

33 KR— K sq. 

34RxR 

35KtxR 

36 K^-B3 

37 P— QKt 3 

38 K— Kt sq. 
39PxP 

B— K3 

BxB 

Q— K3 

Kt-K2 

Q-Q2 

P— KB3 

Kt-B2 

0—0 

K^-K4 

P— KB4 (e) 

Kt— Kt5 

PxP 

QR^K aq. 

Kt— Q4 

Kt-K4 

KtH-KB2 

K«H-R3 

K— R sq. 

Kt^K2 

Kt (K2)— B4 

KtxKt 

R— K7 

KR— K sq. 

RxR 

RxR 

Q— K3 

B— B3 

K— Kt sq. 

P-Q4 

PxP 

40B— Q2 
41 B— K sq. 
42QxQ 

43 K^-R2 (/) 

44 K— R sq. (g) 

45 Kt^B sq. 
46P— KKt4 
47 K— Kt 2 
48B— Q2 

49 Kt— K3 ch. 
50BxB 
51 K— B2 
62 B— Kt 6 
53 K— K3 
54B— R7 
55 K— Q2 (h) 
56P— KR4 
57B— K3 
68PxP 
59B— Kt5 
60B— Q8 
61B— K7 

62 B— Kt 5 

63 K— Q sq. 
64BxKt 
65K— K2 

66 K— K sq. 

67 K— B sq. 

68 K— K sq. 

69 Resigns. 

P— QR3 
Q— K5 
PxQ 
B— Q5 ch. 
K— B2 
K— K3 
Kt— Kt2 
K-Q4 
Kt-K3 
BxKt 
Kt— Qsq. 
Kt-B3 
Kt— Kt6 
P— R3 
Kt-Q6 
KtxBP 
Kt— Q6 
P— KR4 
PxP 
K— K4 
K— B5 
K— B6 
Kt— B6 (i) 
P— K6 
KxB 
P— R4 
K— B6 
P— K7 ch. 
P— Kt3 

(a) Introduced by Wilfried Paulsen in the tournament of Wiesbaden, and since 

greatly favored by various masters. 
{b) Adopted first by Winawer, and a good defence a.s far as practical results have 

shown. 

(c) Q— <i3, threatening Kt — R4, was superior. 

(d) Kt— Q4 at once, with the view of opening an attack by P — KB4, was here 
indicated. 

(e) With good insight into the position, Black seizes the opportunity to liberate 
his game. 

</) A bad place for the Knight Qne of the consequences of this feeble move is 

that on the next move White has to get his King out of play for the ending. 

Kt — Q2 was the proper play. 
(g) If 44 K— B 8^., 44 Kt— K6 ch.; 45 K— Ba, 45 Kl^-Q4 disch.; 46 K— Kt8, 46 

B — K6, winning a Pawn. 
ih) His game was inferior previously, but, of course, he was bound to stick to his 

equal number of Pawns as long as possible, and there was no present need of 

giving up one. 
{i) Which practically finishes the game. 

330 

JUDD S GAMES. 

Oame No. 263. 

Played in the first round, April 1st. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 

H. E. Bird. 

IP— KB4 
2P— K3 
3 KKt— B3 
4P— QKt3 
5B— Kt2 
6B— K2 

7 0—0 

8 Q— K sq. 
9P— Q3 

10 Kt— K5 

11 Kt^Q2 
12PxB 
13B— Kt4 
UBxKt 

15 Kt— B3 

16 P— QE4 
17Kt-R4 
18 QR— Q sq. 
19Q— Kt3 
20B^Q2 

Black 

M. Judd. 

P— QB4 
P— KB 
KKt— B3 
P-Q4 
B— K2 
Kt— B3 
0-0 

Kt— K5 (o) 
B— B3 
K«^Q3 
BxKt 
Kt— B4 
QKt— K2 (6) 
PxB 
B— K3 
P— QIW 
R— Bsq. 
P— QKt3 
K— R sq. 
R— B3 

21 QR— B2 

22 Q— Kt 5 

23 P— KR3 

24 P— H4 

25 B— B sq. 
26Q— Kt3 

27 Q— R2 

28 K— R sq. 

29 P— KKt 4 
30PxP 
31Rr-B3 
32PxP 
33Q— Q2 
34KtxR 
35KtxQP 
36R— B6 

37 P-K6 (a) 
38RxBP 
39PxQ 
40Kt— B6 

41 Q— Q4 

42 Q— Q7 ch. 

KR— Kt sq. 
Q— KB sq. (o) 
P— KKt3 {<!) 
P-Q5 (e) 
B— Bsq. 
P— R3 
B— K3 
K— R2 
PxKP 
P— B5 
PxP 
R-B6(/) 
RxR 
BxQKtP 
B— B5 
Q— Kt2 
P— KKt4 
QxR 
BxP 
Kt— Kt3 
B— Kt6 
Resigns. 

(a) A development of the Q side was more in order. 

(&) P — Q5 would have isolated the adverse front KP and blocked the hostile QB 
with better prospects for Black's game. 

(c) The K side was better guarded if he had not crowded his heavy pieces on that 
wing and tried a diversion on the other flank by the advance of P — B5. 

(d) Unnecessary and weak. 

{e) It was much better to capture the centre Pawn, which either allowed him the 
time for the defence that his opponent required to recover the Pawn, or left 
him a Pawn ahead as some compensation for the attack which the adversary 
had anyhow. 

(/) Q— Kt 2 first was stronger. 

(ff) ^ith his usual energy Mr. Bird grasps the winning opportunity. 

JUDO B GAMES. 

331 

Game No. 264. 

Played in the second ronnd, April 26tli. 

RUY 

LOPKZ. 

White 

Black 

18 PxB 

K^-B3 

M. Judd. 

H. E. Bird. 

19R— B3 
20 Kt— Q4 

Kl^KtS 

0— o-o 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

21 QR— KB gq. 

R-R2 

2 KKt-B3 

QKt— B3 

22 Kt— K2 

Br— Ksq. 

3B Kt6 

Kt— Q6 

23Kt— B4 

K^-K4 

4KtxKt 

PxKt 

24R— Kt3(d) 

P— R5 

6P Q3(a) 

P— KB4 

25 Kl^Kte 

Q— Kt2 

6P QB3 

P— QB3 

26KtxP 

Q— Rsq. 

7B— QB4 

B— B4 

27R-B4 

KtxP 

s^m 

Q K2 

28R(R4)— Kt4 

K— B2 

P— Q3 

29 Q— R sq, 

30 K— R2 

QxP 

lOP— KE3 

B K3 

QR— KRfi 

llKt— Q2 

P— KKt4 

31 Q KBsq. 

RxKtch. 

12BxB 

PxB 

32RxR 

RxRch. 

13Kt— Kt3 

P— Kt5 

33 K— Kt sq. 

Q K8 
KtxQ 

14 Q Kt3 

PxRP 

34QxQ 

ISQxRP 

PxP 

35R— Kt7ch. 

K— Kt3 

16PxP 

B— Kt3 

36 Resigns. 

17 B— K3 (c) 

BxB 

(a) The "Modem Chess Instructor" 

recommends 6 O — 0, ) 

uid continues 

P— QB8; 6 B— R4, 6 Kt— B3; 7 Rr-K sq. 
(6) Kt— Q2, with the view of playing Kt— KB8 or —QKt 3, was superior. 

(c) It was preferable to shut out the adverse Bishop and to form a strong centre 
by P — Q4. His own Bishop had more scope of action in all directions than 
that of the opponent. 

(d) Overlooking or under-estimating the opponent's ingenious reply which gives 
Black just the sort of a lively attack that suits Mr. Bird's style. 

(e) The finishing stroke of a well-played game on Black's part. 

Game No. 265. 

Played in the first round, April 12tlL 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

3B— Kt5 

Kl^BS 

4 0—0 

B— K2 

C. F. BuriUe. 

M. Judd. 

5P— Q4 
6P— Kfi 

PxP 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

Kt— K5 

2 KKi^B3 

QKir-BS 

7 R-K sq. 

Kt— B4 

332 

8KtxP 
9QxKt 

10 K<^B3 

11 Q— K4 

12 Q— Q4 

13 Q— Q sq. 

14 Kl^Q5 
15KtxBch. 
16ExP 

17 Q— K sq. 

18 B— QB4 

19 P— QB3 
20B— B4 
21 B— KKt 3 
22B— Kt3 

23 B— B2 

24 B— KE4 (d) 
25BxKt 
26 P— KB4 
27RxR 
28 P— QKt4 

(a) P — QB3, followed by P — Q4, is the simplest way to equalize the game. 
(6) Justly apprehensive of the effect of B — Q8 which would force him to advance 
P — KKt 3 and thus weaken his position on the K side. 

(c) If 20...KtxB; aiR— K8ch., 21RxR; 22QxRch., 22Q — Bsq.; 28 
Bx P ch., and mates next move. 

(d) Q — K3 was much more promising for his attack. 
ie) Making a draw sure. 

(/) On account of Bishops of opposite colors and equality of position and forces 
otherwise. No other result could be expected since our last comment. 

JUDDS 

OAHES. 

KtxKt 

29 B B2 

Q B2 

0—0 

30 Q— Q2 

Q Kt3 

Kt— K3 (a) 

31 B K3 

R— Ksq. 

Kt— B4 (6) 

32 E^K sq. 

Q— K5 

K1^K3 

33 P QR3 

P— KB4 

P-Q3 

34Q— KB2 

Q-K2 

PxP 

35 Q Kt3 

B K5 

QxKt 

36 B— Q4 

Q Q2 

E^Qsq. 

37 Q K3 

P QR3 

q-<is 

38 B K5 

Q KB2 

P QB3 

39 Br-Q sq. 

B Q4 

P QKt3 

40Q B2 

Rr-K3 

Q— B sq. (c) 

41 R— Q3 

R Kt3 

P— QKt 4 

42 R— Kt 3 

B K5 

Kt-B4 

43RxR 

QxR 

B K3 

44 Q — Q2 

P— KR4 

Kt— Q6 

45 Q— Q8 ch. 

K— R2 

RxB 

46 Q Kt5 

QxQ 

R-Q4 

47PxQ 

BxR 

Drawn, (e) 

P— KB3 

Game No. 266. 

Played in the second . round, May 13th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

M. Judd. 

C. F. Burille. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B Kt5 
4B— R4 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt^B3 

6 0—0 
6P— Q4 
7B— KtS 
8PxP 
9P— B3 
10 E— K sq. 

llKlr-Q4 

KtxP 
P— QKt4 
P-Q4 
B— K3 
B— K2 
0—0 
KtxKt(o) 

jtjdd's games. 333 

12PxKt P— KR3(6) 24QRxB P— QB4 

13P— B3 Kt— Kt4 25Br-B6 R— Kt sq. 

14Kt— B3 P— QB3 26Q— Kt5 PxP 

15 B— B2 R— K sq. 27 P x P R— B2 

16P— B4 P— Kt5(c) 28B— Q3 R— QKt2 

17 P X Kt (({) P X Kt 29 P— KR4 K— R sq. 

ISPxRP P— Kt3(e) 30BxRP(9) Rr-Kt7 

19 PxP B— Kt4 31R— KB2 Q— Kt3 

20R— Ktsq. K— R2 32RxR QxR 

21R— Bsq. 'R-R2 33 Q— B4 QxRP 

22 P— Kt 3 (/) R— KR sq. 34 B— B8 (A) Resigns, (i) 
23Q— R5 BxB 

(a) Kt— R4 was a better defence. If, however, 11 . . .Q— Q2 (or 11 . . .Kt x KP; 12 

P— KI«, and wins); 12 Kt x B, 12 Q or P x Kt; 13 R x Kt, and wins. 
{b) Otherwise the Knight is lost by P— B8, followed by P— KR4. 

(c) He had hardly any better move. If 16. .Kt— R2; 17 P— B5, 17 B— QB sq.; 
18Q— Q3, 18B— Kt4; 19 P— B6, 19P— Kt3; 20Q— KtS, with a powerful 
attack. 

(d) Kt — R4 was, we believe, stronger play. 

(e) He is now two Pawns u> the bad and cannot hope to retrieve himself. 18. . . 
P X KtP was surelv his only chance. White could not then venture at once 
on a direct attack against the K wing. If, for instance, 19 P x P, 19 P x 
B (lueening; 20 Q— R5 (or 20 Q— Q3, 20QxB, and wins), 20...P— KB4; 21 
PxP en pass., 21 QxB; 22RxB, 22 Q— R2; 23 P— B7 ch., 23KxKtP, 
and should win. 

(/) This seems useless, and Q — R5 at once was more to the point. 

(^)He might have aimed at higher game by 30 QR — KB sq., with the likely 
continuation, 30. .R— Kt7; 31 P— R7, 31 Rr-K sq. (if 31. . .I^-KKt 2; 32 
Rx B, 32 Q X Q; 33 R— K8 ch., and wins); 32 P— Ro, with a fine attack. 

(/i) A very beautiful and decisive move. 

(t) For if 34. . .BxB; 35 RxB, 35 RxR; 36 Q— B6 ch., and mates next move. 
He could hold out for some time longer by 34 . . . Q — R2, but White's superior- 
ity of Pawns and position was bound to win. 

Game No. 267. 

Played in the first round, April 4th. 

DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. 

WhiU Black 3 Kir— B3 Kt— B3 

E. Delmar. M. Judd. f ^^^ ^ B— Kt 5 

IP— K4 P— K4 6Kt— Q5 B— E4(a) 

2 KKt— B3 QKt— B3 7 p_Q3 Kt x Kt 

(a)6...KtxKt; 7PxKt, 7 P— K5; 8PxKt, 8QPxP, is a more favorable 
continuation for Black. 

334 

JUDD S GAMES. 

8PxKt 

9KtxKt 
lOP— Q6(6) 
IIB— QB4 
12Q— Kt4 

13 P— QB3 

14 B— KKt 5 
15QxQP 
16KxB 
17Q— Q6 
18QxQ 

19 QR-K sq. 
20B— Kt3 
21R— K3 

22 KR— K sq. 

23 P— Q4 
24K— Kt3 
25PxR 
26B— Qgq. 
27 K— B8 
28R— Rsq, 
29 P— KKt 3 
SOB— B2 
31P— QKt4 
32B^R2 
33R-Q2(/) 

Kt— Q5 
PxKt 
P— QB3 
B— Kt5(c) 
Q— B3 

BxP(Q3)(d) 
Q— Kt3 
BxPch. 
QxB 
Q— Kt3 
RPxQ 
P-Q4 
B— K3 
KR— K sq. 
K— B sq. 
B-Q2 
RxRch. 
R— K sq. 
P— KB4 
K— B2 
P— KKt4 
K— B3 
B-K3 
B— B2 
B— Kt3(e) 
R— KRsq. 

34K— Kt2 
35R— B2 
36 P— K4 
37BxP 
38B— B2 
39 B— Q sq. 
40BxP 
41B— B3 

42 B— Q sq. 

43 K— R2 
44R— Q2 
45 K— B3 
46RxR 

47 K— R2 

48 K— Kt sq. 

49 K-B2 
50P— Kt4 
51B— K2 
52 B— Q sq. 
53BxP 
54KxB 

55 K— K4 

56 K— K5 

57 K— Q6 

P— QKt4 
P— Kt5 
PxP 

R— QB sq. 
B^Ksq. 
R— K6 
RxBP 
B— B2 
B— Q4ch. 
R— B8 
R-R8 
RxP 
BxR((/) 
B-Q4' 
K— Kt4 
P— B5 
K— R5 
P-Kt4 
P— B6(A) 
BxB 
P— R3 
KxP 
K— B6 
K— K5, and 

•wins. 

(&) He Tirtoally gives up a Pawn in order to retard the adverse development, and, 
as usual, materitd b^ts position. 

(c) Not as strong as Q — B8 at onoe. 

(<0 Much superior to 18... PxP; UBxPch., 14 BxB; 15 QxB, with a good 
game. 

(e) Black's play in order to form the present position and the winning idea 
which is nere developed are uncommonly fine. 

if) If, for instance, 88 P— QR4, 88P-Kt5ch.; 84 K— B4 (or 84K— Kt2, 84 
RxP, and wins. Or if 84 K— B2 or — K2, 84 P— B6, and wins); 35 R— 
K6 ch., 85 B x R; 86 QP x B, followed by B— 82, winning easily. 

{g) With two Pawns ahead Black wins without difficulty after the exchange of 
Rooks. 

(A) Simple and decisive. 

JUDD 8 GtAXEB. 

335 

Game No. 368. 

Played in the second round, May 3d. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
M. Judd. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
5 0—0 
6B— Kt3 
7P— Q4 
8 R— K sq. 
9PxP 

10 P— B3 

11 B— B2 (a) 
12B— KB4 
13BxKt(6) 
14QxQ 
15Kt— Kt5 
16 P— K6 
ITKtxKP 

18 QK^-Q2 

19 K— B sq. 

20 P— B3 
21R— K2 

22 B— Kt 3 (c) 

23 QR— K sq. 

24 B— B2 
25BxB 
26B— K3 

Black 
E. Delmar. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
P— QKt4 
B— K2 
KKtxP 
P-Q4 
B— K3 
0-0 
QB— Kt6 
B— QB4 
PxB 
QRxQ 
KR— K sq. 
P— KB3 
RxP 
QR— K sq. 
B— Kt3 
B— KB4 
P— Kt4 
K— B2 
P— KR4 
K«^K4 
PxB 
K— Kt3 

27 K— K2 

28 P— KR3 (d) 

29 K— Q sq. 

30 K— B2 

31 P— QKt 3 

32 R (K sq.)— K2 

33 Kt— B sq. (e) 
34PxP 
36Rr-Q2 

86 K— Q sq. 
87R— Kt2 
38K— K2 
39RxR 

40 Kt (K4)— Q2 

41 K— B2 

42 K— Kt sq. 
43KtxB 

44 P— Kt3 
45K— Kt2 
46KtxP 
47K— R2 
48Kt-K4 

49 K— R sq. 

50 R— K sq. 
61Kt— Q6 
52R^K6 
53 Resigns. 

P-QR4 
P— KR6 
R— Qsq. 
P— R6 
R(K3)— Q3 
B(Q3)— Q2 
PxPch. 
R— R2 
R(Qsa^)- 

QRsq. 
B— K3 
R— R8ch, 
R (R sq.)— R7 
RxRch. 
BxP(/) 
B— B5 
R-R8 
PxKt 
PxP 
Kt— Q6 
Kt— B5 ch. 
R^QBB 
R— B7 ch. 
Kt-Q4 
KtxP(ff) 
P-Kt4^ 
R^Kt7 

(a)llKt— Q4, llKt— R4 (if 11...Q— Q3; 13KtxB, followed by RxKt, and 
wins); 13 B — B8 was superior. 

(b) Not a good exchange. B— Kt 3 was preferable. 

(c) If 23 Kt X P ch., 33 B X Kt; 28 B x R ch., 33 K— B3, and should win. 

(d) Weakening his K side still more. 

(e) This exposes his Q side to a strong attack. 

(/) Black has very cleverly wrestled this Pawn from his opponent, 
(y) The adverse position is now untenable. 

336 

JUDD 8 OAME& 

Game No. 269. 

Played in the first round, April 15th. 

FRENCH DEFENCE. 

White 
0. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 

2P— Q4 

3 QKt— B3 

4P— K5 

6P— B4 

6B— Kt5(6) 

7B— Q3 

8PxP 

9 P— QKt3 
10 Kt— B3 
110—0 
12B— K2 
13 P— QR3 (c) 
UKtxB 
15Kt— Kt3 
16Q— K2 
17B— Kt2 
18QR— Qsq.. 
19 Q— B2 (d) 
20QxQ 
21Kt— Q4(e) 
22 K— B sq. 
23BxKt 
24RxB 
25PxP 
26P— KB4 

27 Kt— K4 

28 Kt— Q6 
29R— QKtsq. 
30 Kt— Kt 5 
31P— R4 
32E(Q4)— Qsq. 
33P— QKt4(/J 
34RxP 

35 R— QKt sq. 

Block 

M. Judd. 

P— K3 
P-Q4 
KKt-B3 
K^-Q2 
P— QKt3(«) 
P— QB3 
P— QB4 
PxP 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 
Kt— Kt5 
B— R3 
BxB 
QKt— B3 
P— Kt3 
P— QR4 
P— KR4 
Q— Kt3 
P— B5 
KtxQ 
B— B4 
KtxKt 
BxB 
PxP 
K-Q2 
KBr— QBsq. 
K— K2 

Br-B6 

K<^Q2 
R— B4 
QB— QBsq. 

PxP 
R— B8 
RxRch. 

36RxR 

37 R— R sq. 

38 P— E5 
39K— Ktsq. 
40P— R6 
41 P— R7 
42RxPch. 
43P— Kt3 
44K— B2 
45 PxP 
46K— Kt3 

47 Kt— Q6 

48 R— R8 ch. 
49Kt— Kt5 

50 R^KKt 8 

51 Kt— R7 

52 K— B2 
53Kt— B6ch. 

54 Kt— Q4 

55 R— Kt 6 

56 K— K3 
57Kt— Kt5 
58 K— Q3 
59R— Kt8 
60Kt— B7 

61 K— K2 

62 R— Kt 7 

63 R^Kt 5 ch. 
64KtxKP 
eSRxKtP 
66R— Kt8 

67 K— Q3 

68 R— B8 ch. 
69R^Kt8ch. 
70K— Q4 
71R-QR8 
72 R^R sq. 

R— B5 
RxBP 
RxPch. 
KtxP(?) 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
K— Bsq. 
R— Kt5 
P— R5 (A) 
RxP 
P— Kt4 
R— KB5 
K— K2 
P— B4 
R— QKt5 
R— Kt6ch. 
P— Kt5 
K— Q3 
R— Kt3 
K— K4 
Rn-R3 
R— B3 
R— B5 
R— Kt5 
R— Kt6cb. 
R^Kt2 
P— B5 
K— B3 
KxKt 
K— B4 
R— K2 ch. 
P— B6 
K— Kt5 
K— B5 
R^KB2 
P— B7 

K— Kt6, and 
wins. 

(a) The present form of this opening has not been much developed in practice 
and analysis, and the move in the text has to be taken into account in itn 
theoretical examination. 

(?>) ft Kt— B8, 6 P— QB4; 7 P— B6, was likely to lead to a lively attack. If, for 

JUDDS GAHKS. 

337 

instance, 7. . .QBP x P; 8 KKt x P, 8 Kt x P; 9 B— IJt 5 ch., 9 B— Q2; 10 P x P, 

lOPxP; 11 KtxKP, etc. 
(f*) Bx B, followed by Q — K3, would have developed his game more rapidly. 
{^(l) He should have given uo opportunity for exchanging Queens, as the opponent 

had the advanttige for the ending on the QB file which he could soon 9pen. K 

— R sq. was the right play. 
{e) Premature. He ought to have tried to obtain command of the square with 

one of his minor pieces, for which purpose Kt — K2 first was the move. 
(/) This advance is ruinous. 33 Kt— R3, and if. . .33 El — K7; 34 11— R .scj. was 

decidedly superior. 
(//) Black has four Pawns for the piece >\hich he intends to give up for Whitens 

QRP, and that is more than enough. 
(A) After getting rid of the adversary's last Pawn his victory is only a matter of 

common care and attention. 

Game No. 270. 

Plajed in the second round, Maj 15tli. 

RUY 

L0PK.7, 

fVhite 

Bhwk 

19 B Q2 

Q-Kt6(c) 

M. Jiidd. 

(}. H. 1). Gossip. 

20 P— B4 
21KtxKt 

Kt(B5)xB 
BxP 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

22RxKtch.(^j!) 

PxR 

2 KKt- B3 

QKt— B3 

23Kt— KBsq. 

BxQ 

3 B— Kt 5 

P— QR3 

24 Kt X Q 

P— KB4 

4B R4 

Kt B8 

25K— Ktsq. 

0—0—0 

60 0 

KtxP 

26 Kt Bsq. 

KR— Ksq. 

6P— Q4 

P QKt 4 

27 K— B2 

P— K6 ch. 

7B Kt3 

P-Q4 

28 K— K2 

R-Q3 

8PxP 

Kt— K2 

29 R^B sq. 

KR— Qsq. 

9P— B3 

B— KKt5 

30 P— KKt 3 

R— Q7 ch. ( 

lOR-Kaq. 

P QB3 

31KtxR 

RxKtch. 

11 B B2 

Kt— Kt 3 

32K— Ksq. 

R^Kt7 

12 P— KR3 (a) 

BxKt 

33 K— Bsq. 

RxP 

13QxB 

KtxP 

34 R— Ksq. 

R— B6ch. 

14 Q B5 

B-Q3 

35 K— Ktsq. 

R— B7 

15P— B3(/;) 

P-Kt3 

36 B Kt3 

P— B5 

16 Q B4 

Kt QB5 

37 B Kt8 

RxKtP 

17 Q-R6 

Q— Kt3 ch. 

38BxRP 

P— B6 

18 K— R sq. 

Q B7 

39R^QR8q. 

B— B5 

(e) 

(«) QKt— Q2 was by far better. 

(6)* A grave error after which his game soon becomes disorganized. 

(c) Black has assumed and carried out the attack in excellent style, and he wins 

at least the exchange. 
{(l) Best, if Kt — B sq. at once, Black would answer Q x R. 
{e) The simplest and most effective plan. 

338 

JUDD8 GAMES. 

40B^KB8q. 

41 K— 11 sq. 

42 K— Kt sq. 

K-KlTch. 
R— li7 eh. 
P— B7 <h. 

4:5 RxP 
44 K—V, sq. 
4;") llcsiKiis. 

PxEcIi. 
B— Kt 6 

Uanie No. 271. 

Played iu the first rouiul, April 6th. 

CUL'UCO I'i.VNO. 

White 
J. M. Hanliatn. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q3 

5 QKt— B3 

6 P— QR3 

7 KB— Kt 5 (h) 

8 B X Kt 

9 P— KE3 
100-0 
11 P-Q4 
12KtxP 

13 B— K3 

14 Kt— B3 
15BxB 

16 P— KKt 4(c) 

17 Kt— R2 
18PxP 

19 Q— B3 

20 K— R sq. 

21 R— KKt sq. 
22Q— Kt3 

23 QR— K sq. 

24 Q— B4 
25QxQ 
26R— Qsq. 
27R-Q3 
28RxR 
29 Kt— B3 
30R— Kt3 

niack 

M. .ludd. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 
KKt— B3 
P— Q3 
(JB— Kt 5 («) 
0—0 
PxB 
B— Q2 
Kt— K sq. 
PxP 

Q—m 

B— Kt3 

Q— R4 

RPxB 

QxRP 

P— KR4 

R— R4 

R— Kt4ch. ((0 

Q-R4 

RxP 

Q-K2 {(■) 

R-R6 

Q-K4C/-) 

PxQ 

B— K3 

Kt— Q3 ((f) 

BxR 

P— KB3 

B— K3 

31 
3-i 
33 
34 
35 
3(5 
37 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
40 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
62 

Kt-Q2 
K— Kt 2 
R— K3 
P— R4 
P— Kt4 
R — ,K sq. 
R— KRsq. 
li— QEsq. 
P— KB3 
Kt X Kt 
P— R5 
RxP 
PxR 
Kt— R4 
Kt— Kt2 
P— B3 
K— Kt3 
PxP 
K— Kt4 
K— Kt5 
Kt— B4 ch. 
Kt— Q2 

Ktr-B4 

KtxPch. 
KtxP(i-) 
KxB 
K— B5 
K— K5 
K-Q5 
KxP 
P— B4 
K— Kt5 

K-B2 
P— KKt 3 
R— KR sq. 
K— K2 
R— QR sq. 
Kt— Kt2(/<) 
Kt— Q3 
P— KB4 
Kt— B5 (0 
BxKt 
PxPO') 
RxR ' 
K— Q3 
B— Kt4 
K— B4 
B— R3 
PxP 
K— Q3 
P— B4 
B— Kt2 
K— K3 
K- B2 
BxP 
K— K3 
BxKt 
K-Q3 
K— B3 
K— Kt4 
KxP 
K— R5 
K— Kt6 
P -B3 ch. 

Drawn. 

(a) Neither this move nor tlip one to which it i.s a reply aiv commendable. 
(6) Mucli stronger waS Kt — K2. 

(c) A grave oversight tliat uselessly throws away a Pawn. 

(d) Useless. Q — 114 at once was much better. 

JUDDS GAMES. 

339 

(e) Not ns stronj? as Q — B3 whieli would have kept the adverse Queen in a more 

confined position. 
(/*) P — Kt JJ, followed by Kt— Kt 2 and Kt— KR4, was more promising. 
(g) This Rook had a more valuable command tlian that of the adversary, and he 

ought to have retreated it to R5. 
(h) A weak move. Kt — B2, with the view of advancing P — KB4, was the proper 

play. 
(I) Not a favorable exchan^re. 39. . .Kt— Kt 4; 40 Kt x Kt, 40 P x Kt; 41 P— Rn, 

41 Px P, followed hoon by K— Q2. was a stronger continuation. 
(j)Forceil. If, for instance, 41...P— QH4; 42PxKtP, 42RxR; 48P— Kt7' 

and wins. 
(A*) White has accomplished his object of drawing against the large odds of a 

Pawn with great ability. 

Game No. 272. 

Played in the second round, May 6th. 

PHILIDOR^S DEFENCE. 

mile 

lilack 

M. Jiuld. 

J. M. Haiiham. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

P Q3 

3P-Q4 

Kt— Q2 

4 P— B3 

B K2 

6B K3 

KKt— B3 

6B— Q3 

P— QB3 

7 QKt— Q2 

Q B2 

8R QBsq. 

0 0 

9 0-0 

R— Ksq. 

lOKt— Ksq. 

Kt— B sq. 
Kt— Kt5 

IIP— KB4(«) 

12 Q— B3 

B B3 

13 P— B5 (h) 

KtxB 

UQxKt 

PxP 

15PxP 

16Ki— Kt3(c) 
17P— Kt4W) 
18Kt— Kt2 
19BxP 

20 Kt— B4 

21 QR— K sq. 

22 Q— KB3 

23 B— Kt.sq. 
24RxE 

25 Kt— B5 

26 R— Q sq. 
27QxB 

28 R— KB sq. 
29QxQ 

30 Rr-K sq. 

31 B— B2 

Q— Kt3 
P-Q4 
P— KR3 
PxP 
B— Kt4 
Kt— R2 
Kt— B3 
P— QR4 
RxR 
P— R5 
QxP 
BxKt 
Q-K7 
QxPch. (e) 
KtxQ 
K— B sq. 
Kt— B3 

(a) P — KU3 would have lx;en justifiable here, as Black's pieces were so much 

crowde<l. 
(6) This piecipitated advance exposes him to a powerful attack. ISBPxP, 

followed l>y Kt— Kt 3, was neecssari'. 
(c) He had hiirdlv anything better. If either Kt— B3. Black would capture the 

KBP. 
{d) Obviously he could not advance the KP, as Black would simply capture the 

same with the Hook. 
(e) BlHck"* coniluct of the attack has been of a very high order and is now 

rewarded with two I'awns plus, which wins without much trouble. 

340 

JTJDD8 OAHE8. 

32KtxP 

BxP 

33B— Kt3 

R— Q sq. 

3411— K5 

P— KKt3 

35 Kt— B5 

P— Kt3 

36 Kt— R4 

P QKt4 

37 Kt— B5 

RxP 

38 P— QE4 

PxP 

39 B X P 

R K4 

40RxR 

PxR 

41 B Kt3 

K— K2 

42 K— Kt 2 

B— K5 ch. 

43 K— B2 

Kt Kt 6 cl) 

44 K— Kt 3 

P— B4 

45P— E3 

Kt— K4 

46 P— E4 

P— Kt4 

47 P-E5 

P-B5 ch. 

48 K— R2 

P— Kt5 

49 B— Q sq. 

50 Kt— Kt 3 

51 Kt— Q4 

52 Kt— K6 
63 B— K2 
54 B X Kt 
55KtxP 
56 Kt— K2 
67 K— Kt 3 

58 K— E2 

59 K— Kt sq. 

60 Kt— B sq. 

61 Kt— K2 

62 K— Kt 2 

63 K— Kt sq. 

64 K— Kt 2 

65 Resigns. 

K— B3 
K— Kt4 
KxP 
Kt— Q6 
K— E5 
BxB 
B— K5 
K— Kt4 
P— E4 
P— R5 
B— B6 
P— Kt 6 
BxKt 
K— Kt5 
P-Q5 

F— go 

Game Ko. 273. 

Plaj-ed in the first round, April 2d. 

KINii'.S KNIGHT OPENING. 

White 

Lhivk 

M. Judd. 

N. A!ncI.eod 

IP— K4 

P— K4 ' 

2 KKt— B3 

P-QB.S («) • 

3 Kt— B3 (b) 

P Q3 

4P Q4 

B Kt5 

5PxP 

BxKt 

6QxB 

PxP 

7B— B4 

Kt-B3 

8 0—0 

B— K2 (c) 

9Q— Kt3 

0-0 

lOQxKP 

QKt— Q2 

11 Q B5 

P— QKt4 

12 B Q3 

B Q3 

13 B— KKt 5 

Q-B2 

14 P— B4 

15 Q— R3 

16 P— K5 

17 K— E sq. 

18 Kt-K4 

19 B— 116 
'iOQE^Qsq. 

21 PxP en pass. 

22B— B4ch. (/) 

23ExKt 

24 Kt X B ch. 

25ExKtch. 

26QxQ(.7) 

27ExQEP 

28 E— K sq. 

29 P— KE3 

P— KKt 3 
Kt— E4 
B— B4 ch. 
QE— K sq. 
B— K2 
Kt— Kt2 
P— KB4 (d) 
BxP(e) 
PxB 
Q_B sq. 
ExKt 
K— R sq. 
RxQ 

R— KKt sq. 
R^Q3 
Resigns. 

(ff) Tlioiigli this exceutric move does not cause any loss of material, it damages 

damages bis position. 
(6) If Kt X P, Black will soon recover by Q— K2, followed by P— Q3. 

(c) Losing a valuable Pawn. 

(d) An error which loses speedily, bpt his game was anyhow bad. 

^ 

JXn>D B GAMES. 

341 

{e) This loses a piece, but even if he retook with the Knight, the reply Kt — Kt 5, 
followed by Bx ICt, would win the exchange, at least, for White. 

(/) White 1ms played throughout with much superior skill which asserts itself 
energetically to the winning end. 

(V) More elegant would have been 26 B—Kt 5, 26QxQ; 27BxK, 27 Q— lU; 28 
Rx KtP (lisch., and wins. 

Game No. 274. 

Played in the second round, April 27th. 

INDIAN OPENING. 

White 

JJhwk 

N. MacLeod. 

M. Jud(». 

1 P— K4 

P— K4 

2 P— QB («) 

3 P— KB4 

QKt-B3 (6) 
P-Q4 

4QKt— B3(c) 
5B Q2 
6KtxP 

B QKt 5 
PxBP 
Q R5ch. 

7P— Kt3((0 
8 Kt— B3 

PxP 

P— Kt 7 disch, 

9KtxQ 
lOKtxPcli. 

PxRqueeDS 
K— Q sq. 
B KR6 

llKtxR 

12 Q B3 

QxBch. 

13QxQ 
UBxB 

BxQ 
KtxB 

15KxB(p) 

Kt K2 

16 Kt-B3 

K Q2 

17Kt-K5cb. (/j 

K— K3 

ISKtxP 

RxKt 

19 Kt— Kt 5 ch. 

K— B3 

20 P— KR4 

21 K«^B3 

22 R— B sq. 

23 P— K5 ch. 

24 P— K6 ch. (7) 
25K— Ktsq. 
20 R— Q sq. 

27 P— R3 

28 P— Q4 

29 K— B2 

30 K— K3 

31 R-KKt sq. 

32 K— Q3 

33 R— KB sq. 

34 P— Kt 4 
35K— K2 

36 Kt X Kt 

37 K— K sq. 

38 K— K2 
39KxR 
40 Resigns. 

P— KR3 
KtxBP 
R— QB sq. 
K— B2 
K— B3 
Kt— Kt 5 
KxP 
Kt (Kt .5)~B3 

R-Bsq. 

K— Q3 

K~()4 

Kt— 1}4 ch. 

ll^K sq. 

R-K5 

R-B5 

Kt (B3; x P ch. 

Kt x Kt cli. 

Kt— B7 eh. 

RxR 

KtxP 

(a) This move is much in favor with some strong players among tlie Hrahmins of 
India, and the opening has been named, accordingly, the Indian Opening. 

{b) We consider H — B4 the best answer. 

(c) 4 PxgP, 4 QxP; 5 QKt— B8, 5 KB— QKt 5; 6 15— Q2, would have give n him 
a good game?. 

{d) White attacks with great courage, but he falls short in his reckonings, 

(€) Piece.s are even and White is a Pawn ahead, but his Knight lias nt» cMMpc. 

(/"jlle should at any rate have tried to maintain his compact majority ui I'awns 
on the Q side, which he could have done by P -QB:}, for. olivioiisly, IJlack 
could uot capture the QP on account of the rejoinder R — Q .s(|. 

(g) On the chance that Black might take the Pawn, whereupon ilie r(»ply Kx Kt, 
followed by Kt— Q4 ch., would recover the piece. 

342 

JCDD S GAMES. 

Game Xo. 275. 

Plftyed in the first round, April 9th. 
IIUY LOFKZ. 

ir/.ite 

I). :.f. 

".itiiiez. 

IP-Kl 
2XKt -l!:i 
31i— Kt5 
4 P-(^4 
5PxP 

6 0—0 

7 Kt— B3 

8 QB— Kt 5 
9Q— K2 

10 Qli— Q sq. 

11 B— Q134 

12 Kt— KR4 
13BxKt 

14 P— B3 

15 Q— K3 (o) 

16 K— R sq. 

17 B— QKt 3 

18 P— QIU 

19 Kt— K2 

20 P— KKt 4 

21 Kt-Kt 3 
22BxB 

23 Kt— B5 

24 KtP X B 

25 P— Qli3 

26 P— KB4 

27 Q— Kt 3 

28 Q X P 

29 (iR— K sq. 

30 Q - R4 

31 R— J54 

32 R— KKt sq. 

JJhxJ.: 

M. ,JU(l(]. 

P— K4 
QKt-B3 

P— q:i 

PxP 
B— Q3 
Kt— B3 
Kt- K2 
P— ]j:i 
Q— B-J (") 
Kt— Kt 3 
KtxKt 
B— KKt 5(0 
B— R4 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— Kt 3 
0—0 
QR— K sq. 
K — R sq. 
B— Kt3 
B— K2 
QxB 
BxKt 
R— Q sq. 
Kt— B sq. 
P— QKt 3 
PxP 
P-KB3 
Q-Q3 
Q-Q7 
Kt— K2 ((1) 
R— Q2 (-■) 

33 R— Q sq. 
34BxQ 

35 K— Kt 2 

36 It-B2 

37 Q— B4 

38 Q— K3 

39 Q— K2 

40 Q— E5 

41 Q-B7 

42 Q—IU 

43 R-K2 

44 K— B2 

45 K— K3 

46 Q— B7 

47 Q— B4 

48 ii—K6 

49 K— 1)4 
51Q— Kt6ch. 
52 R— K2 
53Q-Kt4 

54 (^— Kt 3 

50 Q -B7 

55 Q— Kt 6 

56 K— B3 

57 Q— Kt 4 

58 K— B4 
59P— Kt3 

60 E^Kt sq. 

61 Q— Kt 2 

62 K— Kt 4 

63 K— R5 

64 Q— B scj. 

65 R— Kt 3 

66 Q— KKt sq 

QxRch. 
RxBch. 
KR— Q sq. 
Kt-Kt sq. 
QR-Q3 
Kt— E3 
R— Q6 
Kt— Kt sq. 
QR— Q2 
R-Q3 
P— KR3 
K— R2 
Kt— K2 
QR- Q2 
P— B4 
Kt— Kt sq. 
R-Q3 
K— R sq. 
IV-K2 
QR— Q2 
R— K sq. 
QR-Q2 
QR— K2 
R— Q sq. 
QR— Q2 
P— QR4 
K— 112 
K— R sq. 
K— R2 
Kt— K2 
Kt— B3 
Kt— K4 
R-Q7 
KE^Q2 

Drawn by mutual consent. {/) 

{a)T..o 1 
(Ij)''- : 

('-•I 

Itorplaii was 10. . Kt- QH sq.; 11 B— QB4, 11 P— KU3, with a froinl 
". liiM'cvor Wliite'.s Bisliop mtiy retreat, 
icct of Black's j^aine has l)('('<)in(f unfavorable. He had to .stop tlw 

oils a<lvaiici' of the adverse KliV two s<iwnros, and the move in tlie text 

■.. ith 111!' next move was lii.s be.st plan for the purpose, but he e.\jK>ses 

.' to other iiiconvcnicnce.s. 

.vcs {'.lack th(! desired time to withdraw his Knight without ill efTeet. 
L, followed l>y r< (^^i, would have formed one of Winawer's favorite 

judd's games. 343 

positions in w]iioh Vvs Kiig'.it aail Bishop are niu 'h stronger than the two 
hisii >n on ac'c»t).Mt of tiiy vloabled Pawn on the otht^r side that cannot easily 
{).' il.-4)lve:l, to »viii''ji ni.iy be added in the present instiinee the hloclted 
sit.i.iLion of H.a -k's (^li. * 

(./) Aitric; a:i.l d 'f^'jKVi hive been well planned an 1 executed by th<' two phiyers 
up u> tills. Bu hv3iv lil.ick ought to have playe<l Kt— (j$. with ilic view of 
Ki -l\iM, whieh eitlier forced an exchange, or e:i iblel the Kniglit to enter at 
K.vt 4 with go > I d 'feauve effect. 

(^) An error. 33. . .H-Qo; ;y Q— Kt 4, 33 F— KKt 4, and if :U P x P rn piiss., 
34ivtxP, wa^ nis bjsu d »r.^:ice. But it should 1)^^ noticed t ha: iiia-k could 
no: le.ive the iliagonal coinmanding his own KR3 without being s.iii<vtcd to 
a b/illiant mate. If, for instance, 32...QxKtP; 33QxPcii., :;. ivxQ;:U 
R— Hi mate, the Black Queen being no more able to interpose at K\. 

(f) White has mis managed his game by aiming at impossil)le matinir ni.in -Hivres 
instead of directing his forces at once against th<^ adverse Q ^ide. At 
present. Black, who has defended himself splendidly, has. in our (►pinion, the 
best Oi" the game and had fair prospects of winning. If. for in^laiu .'. uT K — 
114 (there seems nothing better), 67...R— K7, 68 R— K:J, ttS \l i^ivt T; 69 
P — B4, Hi* R (Q2)— Q7, with an excellent attack, for, supposing now 70 K — 
lU, then still 70...RxPch.; 71QxR, 71RxQch.; 72 K x U, 72 Kt— 
Kt 5 ch., and wins. 

Game No. 276. 

Played in the second round, May 8th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

Wkite Black 12 B— K3 K— R sq. 

M-Judd. D. M. Martinez. }^ g£J,«^- X7_\7 

IP— K4 P— K4 15Kt-K4 R-QKtsci. (6) 

2KKt— B3 QKt— B3 16 P— QB3 Il-Kt t 

3 B— Kt 5 Kt— B3 17 ■ '— KB4 P— Q4 

4 P— Q4 Kt X P 18 Kt ( K4)— Kt 3 B— Ji4 

5 0-0 B— K2 19BxB(") KtxB 
6Q— K2 Kt— Q3 20 Kt— Qi R— Kt3 

7 B X Kt KtP X B 21 P— Kt 3 P-Kt 3 (d) 

8 P X P Kt— Kt 2 22 Q— KB2 Kt— K3 
9Kt— Q4 0-0 23P— Bo Kt— (^ sq. 

lOQKt— B3 Kt— B4 24 P— B6 B— K;i(') 

11 R— K sq. P— QR4 {«) 25 Q— B4 R— KKt sq. 

(a) It is tM-!fntiul for the defence to i)lay K— K stj., followed by P — KIJ;!, as soon 
as p()s<il)le, and he should not have wasted any lime on the K side. 

(6) Useless. B — Q sq., in order to move sjifelj- P — KlJit, was the rif^lit play. 

(c) Kt — Q4 at once, in order to prepare the advance of the KBF, wtss .stionger. 

((/) This only a.s.si.sts the adverse attack. 21. . .Kt— K3; 22 Q— KB2, 22 P— QB4, 
was clearly better. 

(e) Very feeble. Kt — K3 was more likely to furnish a defence. 

344 

JCDD8 

GAMES. 

26 Kt— B3 

Q— Esq. 

35 Q— Kt 5 

P Q5 

27 R— Q4 

B— B sq. 

36PxP 

PxP 

28Kt— Kt5 

Kt— K3 

37R— K4 

P— KB4 (h) 

29 Q R4 

KtxKt . 

38 P X P en pass. 

39 R {K4)— R4 

Q Q2 

30QxKt 

B-K3 (/) 

B— Kt sq. 

31 E^KK4 

P-B4 

40QxKtP 

R KBsq. 

32 R— R«j {<!) 

R— Kt sq. 

41 Kt— B5 

Rr-B2 

33Q— R4 

R— Kt 2 

42 Q Kt7cL. 

Resigus. 

34PxR.-.U. 

QxP 

(f) A ilH)iij;htl«'s^ iiiovc, i.niLably adopted under time pressure, as tlie numbt^r of 
tiic iMovc leads to assmiifc. P— KK3, followed by K— U3 in reply to K — K4, 
was Ills only liopc^ of .sttving the game. 

(^) 'White's Attack i.s conducted in a masterly manner, and this iK)werful stroke 
wins by force. 

(h) Desperate, but thew; was no legitimate hope. 

(Jame Xo. 377. 
Played in the first round, April 8tb. 

Wliit-e Black 

M. Judd. W. H. K. Po 

1 P— K4 P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 QKfc— B3 

3 B— Kt 5 P— QR3 

4 B— R4 Kt— B3 

5 0-0 KtxP 
6P— Q4 P— QKt4 

7 B— Kt 3 P— Q4 

8 PxP B— K3 

9 P— B3 B— K2 

10 B -B2 0—0 

11 R^K sq P— KB3 
12Kt— Q4 KtxKt 
13PxKt PxP 
14 P— B3 Kt— B3 
ISExP B— B2 
10 Kt-B3 B— Q3 

17 li—Kt .')(«) BxR 

18 1'xB P— Q5 

19 Kt— K4 P— Q6 

20 JxtxKtcli. (/^) PxKt 
2lQBxP PxB 

RUY LOPEZ. 

22 QxP 

Q— Q5 ch. 

,, , 23 K— Esq. 
>llock. 24QxQBP 

B Kt3 

R^B2 

25 Q B6 

QR KBsq. 

26QxRP 

QxKtP 

27 Rr-Q s<-. 

Q-QB7 

28Q-Q6 

QxRP 

29 P— KR4 

li— 135 (c) 

30 R— Q4 

Q— B8 ch. 

31 K— R2 

0— By 

32 Q— 05 

Q-Kt2 

33 Q Kt3 

P— KR4 

34R— QKt4 

R— QKt sq. 

35 P— B4 

B B4(f/) 

36 Q— Kt 3 ch. 

K— R2 

37 Q Kt5 

B Kt5 

38 P— K6 

R— Kt2(c) 

39 BxR 

QxB 

40RxP 

RxR 

41QxR 

Q— B3 

42 Q Kt7ch. 

[/) K-R3 

43 P— Kt 3 ig) 

QxKP 

44Q— Kt2 

Q— K7 cli. 

45QxQ 

BxQ 

46K— Kt2 

K— Kt'S 

47 K— B2 

B— R3 

48 K— K3 

K— B4 

49 K Q4 

K— Kt5 

50 K Q5 

B-Q6 

JUDD*S GAMES. 345 

51K— K5 KxP 

52P— B5 KxP 

53 P— B6 B— QB5 

54 Besigns. 

(a) The positions would have been fairly balanced but for this venture which 
turns out unfavorable, owing to the opponent's very ingenious play. R — K2 
was the correct move. 

(b) He was bound to lose the exchange, but the sacrifice of a Rook, though he 
gets tliree Pawns for it and some attack, was not justified. Px Kt was his 
only good move. 

ic) Threatening R x B, followed by Q x RP ch. 

(cf) Black sees in time the adverse ingenious trap. If 35... K — R2 at once; 86 

P— B5, 36 BxP; 37 RxP, and wins. But we believe that Q— B3, followed 

by Q — B7, would have better answered all purposes. 
{e) Excellent and correct play which breaks all attack and produces a winning 

ending for Black. 
if) If 42 Q — Kt 6, Black would win still more quickly by Qx RP ch., followed by 

Q— K8 ch. and Q x KP. 
0/) No better was 43 P— K7, 43 Q x RP ch. ; 44 K— Kt sq., 44 K— Kt 3, followed 

by K— B2, etc. 

Game No. 278. 

Played in ihe second round, May 7th. 

EVANS GAMBIT DECLINED. 

mute 

Black 

lOQxQ 

BxQ 

y. H. K. Pollock. 

M. Judd. 

llBxR 
12 B Q3(6) 

BxR 
K— K2 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

13B— Kt7 

B K3 

2 KKt-B3 

QKt^B3 

14 B— R6 

BxP 

3B B4 

B B4 

15 0-0 

B-Q5 

4P— QKt4 

B— Kt3 

16 B Q2 

Kt^B5 

5P— Kt5 

Kt— R4 

17 B— Kt4 ch. 

Kt— Q3 

6KtxP 

Kt— E3 

18 P— B3 

B— Kt3 

7P-Q4 

P— Q3 

19 P QB4 

BxKt(c) 

8BxKt 

PxKt 

20RxB 

B-Q5 

9BxKtP 

QxQP(a) 

21 P— B5 

Kt— K sq. 

(a) A new idea, and, as far as can be judge<l from the present game, a very good 
one, for it clearly and quickly equalizes forces and position, which, we 
believe, is not the case in most forms of this opening. 

(6) Black likewise regains the Pawn after 12 B— Kt 3, 12 K— K2; 13 B— Kt 7 1, 13 
B— Q2; 14 B— R6'!, 14 BxP, etc. 

{c) B— Q5 at once was decidedly better. 

346 

JT7DD S OAICEB. 

22B— R3 

K— B3 

46 P— R5 (/<) 

P— B3 

23 B B4 

Kt— Kt2 

47B R4 

P— B4 

24B^Kt3 

Kt— K3 

48K Q3 

K— R3 

25 R^B3 ch. 

K— Kt3 

49 K— B4 

K— Kt4 

26R— Kt3ch. 

K— B3 

50 B— Q7 (i) 

B-Bsq.O') 

27 R— B3 ch. 

K— Kt3 

51K— Kt5 

K-B5 

28 P— KR4 (d) 

P— KR4 

52 B— B5 

K— K6 

29E^B5 

E^Ksq. 

53P— R6 

K Q5 

30B— K2 

R— KB sq. 

54 P— R7 

B Kt2 

31P— Kt3 

P— QB3 (c) 

55 B— K6 

KxP 

32PxP 

PxP 

56KxBP 

K— B6 

33 B B4 

B,— QKt sq. 

57 B B5 

P— K5 

34K— Kt2 

E^Kt8 

58 K Q5 

P— K6 

35 B K2 

Kt— Kt2 

- 59K— K6 

P— K7 

36 E^B3 (/) 

P-R4 

60 K— B7 

B— Esq. 

37B— Q3 

R— Kt 6 (a) 

61K— Kt8 

P queens 

38 B QB4 

RxB 

62KxB 

P— R5 

39KxR 

K— B3 

63B— Kt6 

Q K2 

40K— K2 

Kt— K3 

64K— Kt8 

P— R6 

41 P— B3 

KtxP 

65 B B7 

KxP 

42BxKt 

BxB 

66K— Kt7, 

P— B4 

43P— Kt4 

PxP 

67K— Kt8 

Q K4 

44PxP 

B— K2 

68 Resigns. 

45B— Kt3 

K— Kt2 

((f) White is not satisfied with a draw, and the result does not justify his 
conclusion. 

(e) An excellent move which transfers the attack to Black. 

(/) If 86 R— Kt 5 ch. ?, 36 K--R8, followed by P— B3, and wins. 

(g) We would have preferred 37. . .R— QR8; 88 B— B4, 88 Kt-K8; 89 K— R3 (or 
80 Bx Kt; 39 PxB, followed by P— R5, then Rr-QKt8 and Rr-QKt6, win- 
ning), 39...Ktr--Qsq., followed by P— KB3 and Kt— QKt2. 

{h) B— R4 at once, followed immediately by K— Q8, would have drawn without 
difficulty. 

(i) The true cause of his disaster, whereas 50 K— Q5, 50 K x P; 51 K— K6, 51 

B — B sq. ; 52 K x P, would have drawn with ease. 
(J) The manner in which Black now wins, though Bishops are of opposite colors 

and his own Bishop is blocked, makes this ending one of the miest of that 

description. 

Game No. 279. 

The game in the first round between Messrs. Showalter Sind Jndd 
was scored by Mr. Judd by default 

JXTBD 8 GAMES. 

347 

Game No. 280. 
Played in the second round, April ISth. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
J. W. Showalter. 

1 P— K4 

2 KKt-B3 
3B— Kt5 
4P— Q4 
SBxKt 

6 Kt— B3 

7Q— K2 

8B— Kt5 

9B— E4 
10 P— Q5 
IIB— Kt3 
12 Ki^q2 
13Kt-B4 
14 P— B3 
15B— B2 
16P— KKt4 

17 Q— B sq. 

18 Kt— K3 

19 Kt— Q sq. 

20 Kt— B4 

21 QKt— K3 
22PxP 

Bhck 

M. Judd. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P-Q3 
B-Q2 
BxB 
Kt— B3 (a) 
Q-K2 
P— KI13 
P— KKt4 
B— Q2 
B— Kt2(6) 
P— R3 
P— KE4 
P— R5 
Kt— 114 
K1^B5 
P— QKt4 
P— Kt5 
B— Kt4 
P— QB3 
PxP 
QBr— B sq. 

23 Kt^B5 
24Ktx 
25Ktx 
26R— KKts 

27 Kt— Kt 6 c 

28 O— (V-0 id) 

29 K— Q2 
30BxKt 

31 K— K3 

32 B— K sq. 
33BxKtP 

34 Er— QKt sq. 

35 Kt-B4 
36KtxP(/) 
37KtxKPdi8cL 
38KxB 
39P— QB4(3) 
40RxR 
41KtxP 
42P— R4 
43P— E6 
44P— R6 
45KxP 

Drawn. 

BxKt(c) 

BxQ 

B— Kt7 

K-Q2 

K— K2 

K1^K7 ch. 

KtxR 

BxP 

P— K5 

BxKtP 

Br— QKt sq. 

B-K4 

BxKRP(e) 

P— K4 

PxB 

P— B3 

P X P en pass. 

BxR 

K-Q3 

K— K4 

P— B4 

PxPch. 

K— Q3 

(a) P— KB3 is superior. 

(6) Q— Q sq., followed by P — QB3, would have left him the option of utilizing 

his Biship either at Kt2 or on the Q side via K2. 
(c) Overlooking a fine win by 23 . . . R x Kt; 24 Kt x Q, 24 R x BP; for if 25 Q— Kt 

sq., 25 Kt— R6; 26 Q— Kt2, 26 R— K7 ch., and wins. 
id) He had hardly anything better. If 28 B— K8, 28 B x P; 29 B x Kt, 29 KtP x B; 

30 K— B2, 30 B— K5, followed by R— QKt sq., winning soon another Pawn 

with a fine game. 
(6) An error. 35. . .B — B5 ch.; 36 K— B2, 36 R^Kt4, must have won soon. 
(/) A very fine rejoinder. 
(ff) Very well played. This secures the draw. 

348 

JVDDi 

i OAHEB. 

Game No. 281. 

Played in the second round, April 26th. 

BUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Block 

42 B Q4 

R— Q4 

J. W. Bhowalter. 

M. Judd. 

43 K— B2 

B B5 

44 P— Kt 3 

BxKP 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

45BxB 

RxB 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

46 R Q4 

P— Q4 

3B Kt5 

P QR3 

47 K— B3 

K— B2 

4B-E4 

KKt-B3 

48P— R4 

K— K3 

5 0-0 

B K2 

49R^R4 

R K8 

6P— Q4 

PxP 

50K— B4 

K— B3 

7KtxP(«) 

KtxKt 

51 R— R6 ch. 

R— K3 

8QxKt 

P— Kt4 

52R^R8 

R KSch. 

9B-Kt3 

P— B4 

53 K— B3 

K— K4 

lOQ-QBq. 

P— B5 

54R— R3 

R^QB6 

11 P— K5 

Kt— Kt sq. 

65 R K3 ch. 

K— B4 

12 Q Kt4 

P— Kt3(6) 

56R— R3 

R B8 

13BxP 

PxB 

57R^Q3 

R— B4 

WQxBP 

R— Kt sq. 

58 K— K2 

K— Kt5 

15 Kt— B3 

R— Kt5 

59 K— K3 

R— R4 

16 Q K2 

B Kt2 

60K— Q4 

R— R8 

17 P— QR3 

R— Kt3 

61KxP 

R^KtS 

18B-K3 

R— K3 

62 K— K5 

RxP 

19 Q B4 

P— KR4 

63 R^Q4 ch. 

K— R6 

20 P— B4 

Kt— R3 

64K— B6 

R— Kt6 

21 Kt-Q5 

BxKt 

65 R— Q sq. 

KxP 

22QxB 

Kt— B4 

66 K— K5 

R— Kt7 

23 B— B2 

0 0 

67 K— B4 

R^B7 ch. 

24 QR— Q sq. 

Q— B sq. 
Q-B3 (c) 

68 K— K3 

R— B3 

25 P— B4 

69 R— KKt sq. 

P— Kt4 

26 P QKt4 

R— Bsq. 

70 R^R sq. ch. 

K— Kt5 

27 P— Bo 

R^B2 

71 R^Kt sq. ch. 

K— B4 

28R— Q3 

R— Kt2 

72 K— B2 

K— KtSdisch. 

29 KR— Q sq. 

P— R4 

73K— Kt2 

R QR3 

30 Q B4 

Q— Kt4 

74 R— QKt sq. 

R— R7 ch. 

31QxQ 

RxQ 

75 K— B3 

P— Kt5ch. 

32 B— K sq. 

PxP 

76 K— Kt 3 

E^R6 ch. 

33PxP 

P— Kt4 

77K— Kt2 

K— Kt4 

34PxP 

BxKtP 

78R— Kt5ch. 

K— R6 

35 B B3 

Kt— K6 

79R^Kt2 

R— KB6 

36 R— K sq. 

Kt— B7 

80R^R2 

K— Kt4 

37 R K2(rf) 

KtxP 

81R R8 

R^B3 

38 R Kt3 

R^KtS 

82 R— R5 ch. 

R— B4 

39R^Kt2 

B B8 

83R— R8 

P— R6 

40 R X R ch. 

PxR 

84R^R3 

R— QKt4 

41RxKt 

RxP 

86R^R2 

P— R6 ch. 

JUDD S GAMES. 

349 

86K— Kt3 
87 K— R2 
88R— R4 

89 K— R sq. 

90 K— Kt sq. 

91 K— R2 
92R— Kt4 

R— Kt 6 ch. 
K— R5 
R— Kt7ch. 
R— KB7 
R^B6 
R^K6 
R— K7 ch. 

93 K— R sq. 
94R— Kt3ch. 

95 R— Kt 3 ch. 

96 R— Kt sq. 

97 K— Kt sq. 

98 K— R sq. 

99 Resigns, (e) 

K— Kt6 
K— B5 
R^K5 
P— Kt6 
K— Kt6 
P— R7 

(a) An early error which costs a piece. 

(6) 12. . .K — B sq. was preferable. 

(c) It was much better to break the adverse centre and get rid of hid isolated QP 
by P— Q3. 

(f/) White has played an up-hill battle remarkably well, and he now recovers a 
piece by an ingenious trap, but still he remains with the worst of the game. 

(e) With very few exceptions Black has played with masterly precision through- 
out this ending which, though theoretically won, is extremely difficult to 
conduct in practical play. His winning entrance with the King at K6 was 
no more to be prevented. 

Game No. 382. 
Played in the first round, April 10th. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

13QxKt 

Q-Q2 

M. Judd. 

.7. Taubenhaus. 

14 KR^Q sq. 
15P— QR4 

QR^Qsq.(6) 
P-KB3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

16PxBP 

RxBP 

2 KK1^B3 

QKt-B3 

17 Q K2 

P— B3 

3B— Kt5 

P QR3 

IBPxP 

RPxP 

4B— R4 

Kt-B3 

19 R R7 

Q Q3 

50 0 

KtxP 

20 R— K sq. 

B— B2 

6P Q4 
7B Kt3 

P— QKt4 

21 B B2 

B— B sq. 

P Q4 

22 Q-Q2 

R— K sq. 

8KtxKP(a) 

KtxKt 

23 P QKt4(c) 

Q K4 

9PxKt 

B K3 

24 KR— R sq. 

B— Q3 

lOB K3 

B K2 

25 P— Kt 3 

Q— R4 

11 P— QB3 

0-0 

26R— R8 

R K3 

12 Kt— Q2 

KtxKt 

27 R (R sq.)— R7 

B K4 

(a) As this gives Black an unobstructed majority of Pawns on the Q side at once, 

we cannot recommend this diversion from the usual course 8 P x P. 
(6) The source of future trouble. He ought to have kept this Rook at H sq., in 

order to guard against White's opening the QR fiile by P— QR4. P--QB3 was 

the move, 
(c) An excellent move which quite neutralizes the adverse majority of Pawns on 

the Q side. 

350 

JUDD 8 GAMES. 

P— Kt3 

Q— B6 
Q-^B8 ch. (e) 
Q— KE8 
K— Kt8q.(/) 
K— E2 
K— Kt sq. (h) 
Q— K5 
Q— Q6 
Besigns. 

(d) The advance of this Pawn is hardlj judicious. It leads to no more than an 
exchange on the wing on which the opponent is already superior in Pawns, 
and as will be seen, his King gets into difficulties in the ending in 
consequence. 

(e) Q — R8 ch. would have drawn with ease, for of course White could not then 
answer K — Kt 4, as he would be mated at once by Q — H4. 

(/) A fatal error. K— B3 or — K8 would have still drawn. 

(jBf) A beautiful move. 

{h) If 46. . .Q— R3; 46 Q— K7 ch., 46 K— Kt sq. (or 46. . . K— R sq. ; 47 Q— R4, and 

wins); 47 Q — Kt6, followed by P — B6, winning, 
(i) The termination is played by Mr. Judd with acute ingenuity. 

28ExEch. 

RxB 

39P- 

-B4 

29 B-Q3 

B— Kt3 

40K- 

-B3 

30BxB 

QxB 

41Q- 

-K3 

31 B^R sq. 

P— R4 

42K- 

-Kt4 

32 B,— K sq. 

P— R5(d) 

43Q- 

-E7ch. 

33B— Q4 

PxP 

44Q- 

-Kt8cL 

34RPxP 

BxB 

45 0- 

-K5(g) 

35BxBch. 

QxR 

46K- 

-Kt5 

36QxB 

Q— K8 ch. 

47Q- 

-B6 

37K— Kt2 

Q K3 

48 K- 

-R6(t) 

38Q— Q3 

K— B2 

Game No. 288. 

Played in the second round, May 10th. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

14 Kt-- K4i 

J. Taubenhaus. 

M. Judd. 

16 Kl^BS 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

17 B— B sq. 

2 KK1r-B3 

QKt^B3 

18 B— R3 

3B Kt5 

K1^B3 

19 PxP 

4 0—0 

KtxP 

20 Kt— QB5 (b) 

5P— Q4 

B— K2 

21Q— Kt4 

6 Q — K2 

Kt— Q3 

22B^K3 

TBxKt 

KtPxB 

23 BxB 

8PxP 

Kt— Kt2 

24B— K3 

9Kt— B8 

0—0 

25QxPch.(d) 

10 Kt-Q4 

K<^B4 

26KtxR 

11 B— K sq. 

K— R sq. 

27Br-Q2 

12 B— K3 

E-QKt sq. 

28R— Kt3ch. 

13P— QKt3 

Kt-K3 

29 K— B sq. 

P— QB3 («) 
Q— Ksq. 
B— Q sq. 
P— KB3 
B^B2 
BxP 
B— B6 
P-Q3 
PxKt 
Kt^-Q5 (c) 
Q— Kt sq. 
BxQ 

Q-Q4(e) 
KxKt 
K— B2 
Q-K4 

judd's games. 351 

30 B— Kt 2 B— B4 33 B— K3 Q— Kt 8 ch. 

31P— QB3 Kt-K3 34 K— K2 E— Q sq. 

32E— B3 Q— K5 35 Resigns. 

(a) Black rectifies what seems to have been overlooked previously by both parties. 
There is no reason why White on the last move should not have played Et x 
Kt, followed by B X P. 

(6) White allows himself to be outgeneralled here by his far seeing opponent. The ' 
effect of this is that he must ultimately lose a piece at least. 

(c) Black's plan and play are of the highest order. 

(d) He could not spoil much, the game was lost anyhow. 
{€) Threatening Kt— K7 ch. 

DELMAR'S GAMES- 

Game No. 284. 

Played in the first round, April 11th. 
gUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White 

E. Delmar. 

1P-Q4 
2P— K3 
3B— Q3 
4P— QKt3 
5B— Kt2 
6 P— QR3 
7PxP 

8 KKtr-B3 

9 QKt— Q2 

10 P— QB4 

11 P— B5 

12 0—0 

13 P— KR3 (c) 

14 R— K sq. 

15 P— QKt 4 

16 P— QKt5 

17 Kt— K6 

18 P— Kt 3 
19PxKtP 
20 P— KB4 
21RxB 
22P— Kt6 
23BxP 
24KxR 
25K— Kt2 
26RxKt 
27R— K2 

28 R— KR sq. 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

P-Q4 
KKfc-B3 
P— K3 
P-QB4 
QKt— B3 
PxP(a.) 
B— Q3 
B— Q2 
QR— B sq. 
B— Kt sq. (6) 
Q— K2 
Kt— KKt6 
P— KR4 
Kt— R3 
P— KKt4 
Kt— Qsq. 
P— Kt5 
P— R5 
PxP 
BxKt 
P— KB4 
Ki^Kt5 
R— R8 ch. (rf) 
Kt— B7 ch. 
KtxQ 
Kt— B2 
K— Q sq. 
Q— B sq. 

29B— Kt4 
30KxP 

31 Kt— B3 

32 P— QR4 

33 KR— R2 

34 R— R7 • 

35 B— B sq. 

36 KR— R6 

37 B— R5 

38 Kt— K5 

39 B— K3 
40BxB 
41R-R8 

42 P— QR5 

43 QR— R6 

44 P— Kt 6 ch. 
45RPxPch. 
46B— B2 

47 K— R4 
48K— R5 
49B— R4 
50 R (R8)— R7 
51KtxKt(</) 
62 Kt-B6 

53 R— B7 ch. 

54 R (R6)— R7 

55 K— R6 
56RxPch. 
57 R— R7 ch. 
58RxQch. 
59 B— Kt 3 ch. 

K— B2 {e) 
Q— Kt2 
R— Ksq. 
Kt— R sq. 
Kt— Kt3 
Q— Bsq. 
R^K2 
Q— Kt2 
Kt— B sq. 
B— K sq. 
Q— Kt sq. 
RxB 
Q— Kt2 
K— Q sq. 
K-B2 (/) 
PxP 
K— Kt sq. 
R— QB sq. 
R^Qsq. 
K— B sq. 
Kt— Q2 
Q— B sq. 
QxKBP 
QxQP 
K— Kt sq. 
Q— Q8 ch. 
Q— QR8 {},) 
K— R sq. 
QxR 
K— Kt sq. 
Resigns. 

DELMAB8 GAMES. 

363 

(a) There Ls no reason for such an exchange until White also advances P — QB4, 
and it is generally disadvantageous before. 

(&) It was undoubtedly better to exchange Pawns. 

(c) An ill-considered move which only furnishes a mark for the adverse Pawn 
attack on that wing. 

((f) Black has conducted his attack splendidly and with accurate judgment, but 
he should have contented himself her4 with coming out a clear Book ahead 
by 23 . . . Kt X R; 34 9P X R (or 24 B— B2, 24 KKt-B2; 25 P— Kt 6, 25 Q— R5. 
and wins), threatening Q — R2, with an overpowering attack. By the move 
in the text he wins the Queen for two pieces, and this is by no means always 
a favorable exchange and generally a troublesome game to play. 

(c) 39. . . Kt— R sq. ; 80 K X P, 80 Kt— Kt 8, gave him more prospect of relief. 

if) Black's pieces are fearfully blocked, and he has no good defence. 

(ff) White has by steady and beautiful play gained a thii-d piece for the Queen, 
for, obviously. Black dare not retake on pain of losing the Queen by the reply 
R — R8. His attack is besides irresLstible. 

(A) If 55...Q— KR8, mate would be eflEected by 56RxPch., 56K— Rsq.;;57 
R— R7 ch., 57 K— Kt sq.; 58 Kt— Q7 ch., 58 K— B sq. (or 58. . .Rx Kt; 59 R— 
R8 ch., and mates next move); 59 P— Kt7 ch., 59 K— B2; 60 P queens ch., 
and mates nest move. 

Game No. 285. 

Played in the second round, May 11th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

D. G. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2KK1^B3 

3 B— Kt 6 

4 P— Q3 (a) 

5 0—0 
6PxP 
7Kt-B3 
8BxKt 

9 P— Q4 (6) 
lOKtxP 
UQxB 

Black 

E. Delmar. 

P— K4 

QKt— B3 

P— B4 

Kt-B3 

B— B4 

0—0 

P-Q3 

PxB 

PxP 

BxKt 

BxP 

12 B— Kt 5 

13 BxKt 

14 Kt— K4 
15Kt— Kt3 

16 KB— K sq. 

17 Q— K3 

18 P— KB3 
19B^K2 
20R(K2)— Ksq. 
21Q— B3 
22P— Kt3 

23 QB— Q sq. 

24 Q— K3 

25 P— QB4 

Q-Q2 (c) 
RxB 
R— Kt3 
B— K3 
P— B4 
R— KB sq. 
Q-B2 
B— B5 
E^K3 
R-E3 
B— Q4 
B— B3 
Q— Kt3 
P— R4 

(o) Either 4 P— Q4, 4 PxQP; 5 P— K5, as recommended by the "Modem Chess 
Instructor," or else 4 PxP, with the likely continuation : 4. . .P — K5; 5 Q — 
K2, 5Q— K2; 6 BxKt, BQPxP; 7 Kt— Q4, etc., are stronger replies to 
Black's last move which is an unsound defenc«. 

(6) White has evidently lost a move. 

(e) We should have preferred 12. . .B x P, with the probable continuation: 18 Q — 
B4 ch., 13 K— R sq. ; 14 Q x P, 14 Q— Q2, with a strong passed Pawn in the 
centre and the superior position. 

354 

DELMABS GAMES. 

26Q— K7 
27 Q— K2 
28Q— K7 
29 Q— K2 
30RxQ 
31 P— QR4 
3211— Q3 

33 K— B2 

34 R (K2)— K3 
36PxB 
36R— K4 

Q-B7 
Q— Kt3 
Q-B7 
QxQ 

R(R3)— B3 
R— Ktsq. 
K— B sg. {(i) 
R— Kt5 
BxRP(e) 
RxQBP 
R— B7 ch. 

37 R— K2 R— QB5 

38 R (Q3)— K3 P— Q4 
30Kt— R5(/') R— Q3 

40 R-K8 ch. K— B2 

41 R (KB)— K7 ch. Of) 

K— Kt3 
42P— Kt4 P— Q.5 

43RxPch. K— R3 

44 R (K2)— K7 R— B8 

45 K— Kt 3 Resipis. 

(d) R — B sq., with the view of doublin<; the Rooks on the QKt file, was certainly 
l)etter. 

(e) The sacrifice of the piece, though it gives him three iiassed Pawns, was 
aajustifia'>le in vie.v of th^ baJ position of his Kin'?. 

(^/) This powerful move gives winning force to his attack. 

(g) It was more correct to check with the other Roo:< and to draw the advei'se 
K — Kt3 without giving him the option of retreating to B mi. 

(iame Xo. 386. 

Played in the first round, March 28th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

/ 

White 
J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
5 0—0 
6Kt— B3 
7B— Kt3 
8P— Q3 
9 P— KR3 (rt) 

10 Kt— KR2 

llRPxKt 

12 Kt— K2 

13PxP 

14K<r-Kt3 

15 P— KB3 

16 K— R sq. 
17B— Kt5 
18BxKt 

Mack 
E. Delmar. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 
P— QKt 4 
0—0 
P-Q3 
Kt— QR4 
KtxB 
P— Kt5 
P-Q4 
QxP 
B— Kt2 
B— B4 ch. 
B— Kt3 
Q-K3 
QxB 

19Kt— K4 Q— Kt3 

20 Q— Q2 P— KB4 

21Kt— B2 Q— Kt6 

Position after Black's 88d move 

BxKt 

Black— E. Delmar. 

' B BiB*B, 

■ B B Bf 

itB BIB fl 

B«B mtm 

1- R«>B ^ ■ 

B BSBlBiJ 

Cmtm BsB 

a_B_jLji* 

White—J. W. Baird. 

DELKAB 8 GAMES. 

355 

22 QR— K sq. 

23 Kt— Q aq. 
24Kt— K3 
25 Kt— QB4 
26Er-K2 
27RxKP(f) 
28KtxB 

29 Kt— B4 (rf) 

30 R— K sq. 

B^B3 
R— Kt3 
R— KB sq. 
B— Q5 (i) 
B— QB4 
B— Q3 
QxR 
Q— Kt4 
B— Q4 

31R— K5 

32 P— KB4 

33 Kt-B3 
34RxQ 

35 K— R2 

36 Kt— K5 
37QxP 

38 K— R sq. 

39 Resigns. 

(/) 

K— K3 

R(Bsq.)— Ksq. 
BxKt(e) 
Er-K8 ch. 
PxR 
R-K7 
RxPch. 
ExKt 

(a) Much better was Kt — K sq., preparing P — KB4. 

(6) This might have cost a valuable Pawn. R — K sq. was the right move. 

(c) Breaking down just on reaching the winning point. 27 Kt x P, 27 B — Q3; 28 
P— Q4, 28 P--QB4; 29 KR^K sq., followed by Kt— B sq., repelled the whole 
adverse attack, with a Pawn ahead. 

(d) If 29 Kt X B, 29 Q— Kt 4, and wins. 

(e) A very beautiful sacrifice of the Queen. See diagram. 
(/) For if P X R, the reply R^Kt 4 disch. wins the Queen. 

Game No. 287. 

Played in the second round, April 22d. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 

BUxck 

E. Delmar. 

J. W. Baird, 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

3B— B4 

B— B4 

4P— B3 

K<^B3 

5Q— K2 

P-Q3 

6P-Q3 
7 B— KKt 5 

0-0 
P— KR3 

SB— R4 

Q— K2 (o) 

9 QKt^Q2 

B— K3 

10 Kt— KB sq. 
llKt— Kt3 
12Kt^R5 
13KtxKtch. 

14 QB— KKt 3 

15 0—0—0 

16 P— KR3 
17Q— B2 

18 QR-KB sq. 
19B— Q5 
20Kt— R4(d) 
21B— Kt3 

QR— Q sq. (6) 
K— R2 
KR— Kt sq. 
PxKt 
Q— B sq. 
B— KKt6 
B— KR4 
P-QR3 
P-QKt4(c) 
Kt— K2 
P-QB3 (e) 
Q— Kt2 

(a) B — K3, in order to play eventually QKt — Et sq., followed by the same Et — 

Q2, would have sooner relieved hia Queen and EEt. 
(6) E — B sq., followed by B — EEtsq., for the purpose of advancing P — EEt 4 

safely, was now imperative in order to prevent the breaking up of his E side. 
(e) It was now high time to take off the Enight, and it could be well forseen 

that he would have little use for his QB unless he now exchanged it. 
(d) Et — E sq. was a better retreat 
(«) Et X B was preferable. 

366 

DELMABB OAHES. 

22 K— Kt sq. 
23B— R2 
24P— KKt4 

25 P— KB4 

26 P— B5 

27 Kt— B3 

28 Q— K2 

29 B— B2 

30 B— Kt sq. 
31BxB 

32 QR— Kt sq. 

33 P— KE4 

K— E sq. 

P-Q4(/) 

B— Kt3 
B^Q2 
QB— KR2 
B— Kt3 
KR— Q sq. 
Kt— Kt sq. 
B— R2 
RxB 
Q— B sq. 
Q-Q3 

34P— Kt5 
35PxRP 

36 R— Kt 7 

37 KR— Kt sq. 
38P— R5 

39 Q— B2 

40 Q— QB5 
41Kt— R4 

42 Q— R7 

43 Kt— Kt 6 ch. 
44RPxP 

45 R X B mate. 

Kt— K2 
R— KKt sq. 
Kt— B sq. (g) 
Q— B sq. 
Kt-Q3 
QR— R sq. 
R^QB sq. 
Kt— Kt2 
R— QKt sq. 
PxKt 
43-B4(t) 

(/)Now and on the last move Black might have foiled the mi verse plan of 
attack on the K side by Q — Kt 4. 

(g) Black is virtually fighting with a piece minus, and he had few options. If 
36. .RxR; 37PxRch., 37 K — Kt sq. (or 87...KxP; 38 R — Kt sq, ch., 
followed by Q— Kt 2, and wins); 38 Kt— Kt 5, threatening Q— Ro, and if then 
38. . . P X Kt; 39 P x P, 39 K x P; 40 P— B6 ch., followed accordingly by R x B 
or Q — Ro, and wins. 

(h) An oversight, of course, but his game was clearly lost even after his only 
move 44 . . . R X R; 45 P X R ch. , 45 K X P; 46 P X B, followed by R— Kt C, etc. 

Game No. 288. 

The game in the first round between Messrs. Bird and Delmar 
was scored by Mr. Delmar by default. 

Game No. 289. 

Played in the second round, April 19th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 

Black 

H. E. Bird. 

E. Delmar. 

1 P— KB4 

P— K3 

2P— K3 

P-Q4 

3 KKt— B3 

B— Q3 

4P-QKt3 

KKt— B3 

5B Kt2 

P— B4 

6B— Kt5ch. 

(a) B— Q2 

7P— QR4 

P-QR3 

8B-Q3 

B— B3 (6) 

9 0—0 QKt— Q2 

10 Q— K sq. Q— B2 

11 Q— Kt 3 Br— KKt sq. 

12 Kt— K6 P— KKt 3 

13 Kt— R3 Ktr-R4 

14 Q— B3 P— B3 
15KtxB QxKt 

16 P— B4 (c) P— B4 

17 P— KKt 4 KKt— B3 
18P— Kt5 Kt— K5 
19 QE^Q sq. 0—0—0 

DELMAB 8 OAMES. 

357 

20PxP 
21 B— K2 
22PxP 
23 Kt— Kt sq. 
24B— Q4 
25 P— Q3 (e) 
26PxB 
27KtxKt 
28QxP 
29 Q— B5 ch. 
30P— Q5 
31QxQ 

32 K— B2 

33 B— B3 

34 Br-QKtsq. 
35R^Kt2 
36 B— Kt 2 
37P— R4 

PxP 
P— B5 (d) 
QxRP 
Q— Kt6 
B— B4 
BxB 
Kt— B6 
QxKt 
Kt-Kt sq. 
Kt— B3 
Q— Q5 ch. 
KtxQ 
KB— K sq. 
P— Kt3 
(/)K— B2 
R— QKt sq. 
K-Q3 
P— Kt4 

38E^B2 
39 R— QB sq. 
40K— K3 
41R— B3 
42 K— B2 
43RxP 
44R— B3 

45 R (R2)— B2 

46 B— B3 
47K— Kt3 

48 K— R3 

49 P— Q4 
60R— Kt2 

51 R— Kt 6 ch. 
62 R— K6 ch. (A) 
53RxR(Q6)^ 
54 Resigns. 

R— Kt3 
R— QB sq. 
Kt— Kt6 
R — K sq. ch. 
PxP 
K1^B4 
R— Kt5 (g) 
RxPch. 
R— QB sq. 
R^QKt5 
P— QR4 
RxP 
R— 06 
K— K4 
KtxR 
Kt— B5 ch. 

(a) This and his next two moves are neither usual nor advantageous. 

(b) We should have preferred Kt — B8, threatening QKt — Kt 5. 

(c) The reversal in the order of moves was injudicious. P — KKt 4, first, would 
have given him an excellent attack. 

(d) Black has the attack for a little while after this, but his King becomes much 
exposed. He, however, could hardly help that, for if 21...B — Ba or — K2; 
22 P— Q3, 22 Kt— Q3; 28 R— B sq., with a strong attack. 

(e) Still better was, we think, Kt— B.3. 

(/')The wa.ste of time incurred on this and the next two moves seriously 

imperils his game. KR — K sq. was obviously better. 
(g) Black's defence and counter-attack are conducted in high style. He now 

wins a Pawn, with the superior game. 
(h) Winding up with a blunder, but his game could not be saved. 

Game No. 290. 

Played iu the first round, April 6th. 

GIUOCO 

PIANO. 

White 

Black 

6P-Q4 

PxP 

E. Delmar. 

C. F. Burille. 

6PxP 
7B Q2 

B— Kt 5 ch, 
BxBch. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

8QKtxB 

P-Q4 

2KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

9PxP 

KKtxP 

3B— B4 

B B4 

lOQ— Kt3 

QKt— K2 

4P— B3 

K<H-B3 

110 0 

0-0 

358 

DELMAB 8 OAHES. 

12 KR— K sq. 

13 QR— B sq. (a) 

14 B— Q3 

15 P— QR4 

16 B— Kt sq. 

17 Q— B2 

18 P— R5 

19 Q— QB5 

20 K^-K4 

21 Q— R3 (c> 

22 Kt— Q6 
23RxR 
24RxB 

25 R— E sq. 

26 Kt— K4 
27P— KKt3 
28K1^K6 
29PxKt 
30RxP 
31Q— KB3(c) 
32 Q— Kt4 
33Q— KKt3 

P— QB3 
Kt— QKt 3 
Kt (K2)— Q4 
Kt^KB5 
B— K3 
P— Kt3 
Kt(Kt3)— Q4 
P— QR3 (h) 
B— B4 
R— Ksq. 
RxRch. 
BxB(d) 
Q— B2 
R— Qsq. 
R— Ksq. 
P— KB^ 
PxKt 
KtxP 
K<^Q4 
R— KB sq. 
R— B4 
Kir-B3 

34Q— Kt3ch. 
35R-K2 
36Br-K4 
37 Q— K3 
38Q— Q2 
39P— B3(/) 

40 R— K sq. 

41 K— R sq. 

42 Kt— Q3 
43R— K8 
44B^QKt8 

45 Kt— B5 

46 Q— KB2 

47 K— Kt2 

48 K— R sq. 

49 P— KR4 
60K— R2 
51RxPch. 
52QxR 
5SKt-^7 
54 Resigns. 

K— Kt2 
Kt^Q4 
K^-B5 
Kt— Q4 
Q— K2 
RxP 
R— B5 
!— R5 
xP 
R— K5 
R— K2 
Q-QB5 (g) 
Q— QBSch. 
Q— Kt4ch. 
Kf^B5 
Q— Q4ch. 
R— K7 
K— R3 
KtxQ 
Q— B6 

(a) New and of doubtful utility, whereas the tlieoretical continuation 13 Kt — K.^, 
maintains the attack. 

(6) In order to prevent P — R6, but we would have preferred 19 . . . Kt — Ba, 
making room for the strong B— Q4, and if then 30 Q— Kt 4, 20 R— Kt sq., etc. 

(c) A feeble move. Kt — K5, followed eventually by Kt — QB4, was superior. 

(d) Well played. The opponent cannot afford to give up three pieces, including 
a Book, for the Queen. 

(«) White wastes here several moves. Q — QB5 was, we believe, his best play. 

(/) White would have done better on the previous move to accept the draw which 
the opponent offered by a repetition of moves, and he now punishes himself 
by a regular blunder which costs a very valuable Pawn. 

(ar)46...It— K8ch.;46K— Kt2, 46Kt— K6ch., would have won the Queen a^ 
once, for if 47 K— B8, then 47. . .Q— Kt 6 ch.; 48 K— Ba, 48 Q— Kt 7 oh.; 49 
K X B, 49 Q— B8 ch. mate. 

DELMABB GAMES. 

369 

Game No. 291. 

Played in the second round, May 6tli. 

HUNGARIAN DEFENCE. 

Wliite 

C. F. Burille. 

IP— K4 
2KKt^B3 
3B— B4 
4 Kt— B3 (a) 
5P— Q3 
6Kt— K2 
7B— KtSch. 
8B— R4 
9B— Kt3 
lORPxKt 
UKt— Kt3 

12 0—0 

13 P— Q4 
14B— K3 
15 Q— K2 
16P— E3 

17 KB— Q sq. 

18 P— Q5 
19P— B4 
20 K— B2 (b) 
21PxP 
22KtxB 
23P— Kt4 

24 B— KKt sq. 
25B— Kt2(c) 
26 Kt— Q2 

Black 
E. Delmar. 

P— K4 
QKt^B3 
B— K2 
Kt-B3 
P-Q3 
QKt— B4 
P— B3 
P— QKt4 
KtxB 
P— KB3 
O— O 
Kt— K sq. 
Q— B2 
P— QB3 
B— Kt5 
B— K3 
P— QB4 
B— Q2 
P— Kt6 
P— B4 
BxP 
BxKt 
E— B2 
Q-Q2 
P— Kt4 
B— B3 

27 K1r-K4 

28 E— Kt 3 
29K— Kt2 
30Q— Q3 

31 Q— B2 

32 K— B2 

33 K— R sq. 

34 KR— Kt sq. 
35R— R2 

36 KB— E sq. 
37KtxBP(d) 
38BxPch. 
39 BxP 
40B— B3 
41ExP' 
42E— E8 
43RxEch. 
44 E— K sq. (/) 
45K— E2 
46E— K3 
47K— Kt2 
48R— Kt3 
49 K— Kt sq. 
60E— K3 
51 Q— Kt sq. 
52B— Q4 
53 Q— K sq. 
54ExKt 
55 Q— B3 

Q— K2 
B— Kt2 
Kt-B3 
Kt— E2 
Kt^B sq. 
P-QE4 
K<^Q2 
K— B sq. 
Kt— B3 
Q— Qsq. 
PxKt 
K— Kt sq. 
E— QB sq. (e) 
Kt— K sq. 
Q— B3 
Kt— Q3 
KtxE 
Q— B6 ch. 
Kt^K2 
Q— B5ch. 
Kt— Kt3 
Kt— E5ch. 
B— Bsq. 
E— QR2 
P— K5 
E— KB2 
Kt— B6 ch. 
QxE 
Q— Q8 ch. 

(a) It is best to treat this opening on the Giuoco Piano system by 4 P— QB8, and 

then Black's KB is not well placed. 
(6) Kt — Br> was now the proper play in order to prevent Black from opening the 

KB file. 

(c) R — Kt 8 was saperior. 

(d) Both parties have played a waiting game with little aim. The sacrifice of the 
piece is feasible and sound, for White obtains more than sufficient material for 
the piece given up, and he ought to have secured a draw subsequently, but 
still if he had taken into account the full effect on his position of Black's in- 
genious 89th move, he probably would have hesitated in adopting this 
resource. 

(e) Very fine. He threatens Q x QP ch. 

(/) R — R8 would have kept at least the adverse Rook engaged to defend the 
Knight and gave him better prospects of exchanges, after which his large 
majority of Pawns might have asserted itself. 

360 

deuiab's oakes. 

56 K— Kt 2 
57B— K3 
58 Q— Q4 

E— B6 
B— Q3 
Q-K7 

69 Q— Kt 6 
60K— B2 
61 Resigns. 

R— Kt 6 ch. 

RxPch. (gr) 

(ff) The termination is beautifully played by Black. 

Game No. 293. 

Played in the first round, April 9th. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 

E. Delmar. 

IP— K4 
2KK<H-B3 
3B— B4 
4P— QB3 
5Q— K2 
6P— Q3 
7P— QKt4 
8P— QR4 
9B— K3 

lOPxB 

110—0 

12 QKlr-Q2 

13KtxB 

14P— Kt5 

15 Kt— E4 

16 Q— KB2 
17P— Kt4 
18Q— Kt3 

Block 

G. H. D. Gossip. 

P— K4 
QKir-B3 
B— B4 
Kt— B3 
P-Q3 
Q— K2 (o) 
B— Kt3 
P— QI13 
BxB 
0-0 
B— K3 
BxB 
P— QR4 
Kt— Q sq. 
P— KKt3 
K<^R4(6) 
Kt-Kt2 
K— Esq. 

19R— R2 

20 QR— KB2 

21 Q— R3 
22P— Kt5 
23 Kt— B5 (d) 
24QxKt 
25RxP 
26PxR 

27 P— K4 

28 Kt— K3 
29Q— Kt4 
30P— B6 

31 Kt— Q5 

32 P— KR4 
33Q— R5 
34R— B5 

35 Kt— K7 {e) 

36QxP 

37 K— R2 (g) 

38Q— Kt4 

39R^R5 

P— Kt3(c) 
P— KB3 
K— Kt sq. 
Kt— R4 
PxKt 
PxKtP 
RxR 
Kir-B2 
Q— B3 
Q-R3 
Q— Kt2 
Q— Bsq. 
Q— Q sq. 
K— Rsq. 
Q-Q2 
PxP 
Q— K sq. 
P-R3(/) 
K— R2 
Q— KB sq. 
Resigns. 

(a) This square should be reserved for Black's QKt to withdraw to. 
(6) Q3 was a much better position for this Knight. 

(c) Toward the end of the game the hole made here at QB3 and his being unable 
to push the QBP in consequence, has a bad influence on his position. 

(d) White brings his well-planned attack virtually to a culmination here in 
breaking up the K side. The rest is almost mere detaU for a skilled player. 

(e) Decisive. He threatens to win the Queen by Kt — Kt6 ch., followed accord- 
ingly by Kt X KP disch. or R— R5 ch. 

(/) White could compel that advance by R — K5. 

(£>) Unnecessary delay. 87 Br— B5, 87 K— B2; 88Q— Kt4, forced the game at 
once. 

DELICAB 8 OAHES. 

361 

Game No. 298. 
Played in the second ronnd, May 8th. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

White 
G. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4Kt— B3 
5B— Kt5 
6P— KR3 
7QxB 
8K<^R4 
9KtxB 

10 P— Q3 

11 P— QB3 

12 0—0 

13 P— B5 (a) 
14B— K3 
15P— KKt4 
16 P— B4 
17BxKt 

18 P— QR4 

19 P— R5 
20RxP 

21 KB— QR sq. 

22BxB 

23BxB 

Black 
E. Delmar. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
QKt— B3 
B— KKt5 
BxKt 
Kt— B3 
B— Kt3 
RPxKt 
Kt— Q2 
Q— B3 
Q— K2 
0—0-0 
K<^B3 
P— KR3 
QR— KKt sq. 
PxB 
K— Kt2 
PxP 
R— QRsq. 
RxR 
B^QR sq. 
KxR 

24 Q— Q sq. 

25 P— QKt 4 
26B— Bo 
27KPxP 

28 Q— QR sq. 

29 Q— R7 ch. 
SOP— Kt5 
31QxQch. 

32 B— B8 

33 P— B6 (6) 
34BxP 

35 PxP 

36 B— Kt 7 

37 P~R4 
38K— Kt2 
39 PxP 
40K— B3 
41BxP 
42K— B4(d) 
43KxP 
44B— QB3 
45B— K5 
46K— B3 
47 B— R sq. 

K— Kt2 
P-Q4 
Q— Ksq. 
PxP 
Q— B3 
K— B sq. 
Q— Kt2 
KxQ 
Kt— K sq. 
P— Kt3 
PxP 
KtxP 
Kir-K5 (c) 
P— QB3 
PxP 
K— Kt3 
P— B4 
Kt^Q7 ch. 
PxP 
KxP 
Kt— K5 
K— B4 
K-Q4 
Ki^Q3 
Drawn. 

(a) Wbite has obtained the superior position, bnt the blocking tactics were hardly 
as suitable to his attack as reserving the option of opening the KB file. 

(6) He has conducted his attack skilfully against a very clever defence up to 
a manifest superiority for the ending, which he could have now obtained 
by P — QB5 instead of the seductive but in reality weak move in the text. 

(c) Intending, if White capture the Pawn, to answer Kt — ^Kt 4, threatening Kt — 
B6 ch. as well as, Kt x RP ch. But, obviously, Kt — R3 had the same effect 
and was by far more safe, for we believe that White could have won sub- 
sequently after the move in the text. 

(d) Failing to grasp a fine winning opportunity by 42 K — K8, 42 Kt — B6 ch. (or 
42. . .Kt— B8 ch.; 48 K— K2, and wins. Or if 42. . .Kt— K5; 48 K— B4, and 
should win); 43 K— Q4, 48 KtxB; 44 KxKt, 44 PxP; 46 K— B4, and it wiU 
be found on examination that after Pawns are cleared White remains with 
the KRP ahead and reaches with his King the square at KKt 7 before Black's 
King can come further than to K sq. White's Pawn cannot, therefore, be 
stopped from queening. 

362 

delxab's games. 

Game No. 294. 

Played in the second round, May 18th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

mate 

E. Delmar. 

IP— K4 
2KKir-B3 
3B— B4 
4 0—0 
5P— B3 
6P— Q3 

7 QKt-Q2 

8 R— K sq. 

9 Kt^B sq. 
10 Kt^K3 (a) 
llBxB 
12B— Kt3 
l3PxKt 
14B— Kt5(J) 
15 P— R3 
16QxB 
17P— KKt4 
18B— Q2 

19 P— R4 (d) 

20 P— B4 
21P— Kt4(e) 
22PxP 
23R-K3 

24 Q— Q sq. 
26B— B3 
26 R— Kt 3 

Blaik 

G. H. D. Gossip. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
B— Kt3 
B— Kt5 
K<^B3 
0—0 

I-Q2 

BxKt 
Kt— QR4 
KtxB 
P— QR3 
K— Rsq. (c) 
BxKt 
Kt— Kt sq. 
P— KB3 
K<^K2 
QR-Qsq. 
P— QB4 
Kt— B3 
PxP 
K1^Q5 
Kt— B3 
Q-K3 

Rr-Q2 

27Q— B3 
28 R— Q sq. 
29P— Kt3 
30B— Kt2 
31P— Kt5 
32 Q— R5 
33P— Kt6 

34 B— B sq. 

35 K— R2 
36R— Kt5(j/) 
37 PxP (A) 
38QxKt 
39B— K3 
40Q— R5 
41RxP 
42QxQ 
43BxBP 

44 R-K8 ch. 

45 R— B8 ch. 
46P— B4 
47Rr-QKt8 
48K— B3 
49 P— B5 

60 B— R3 (i) 

51 K— Kt 4 

52RxP 

53 R— Kt 7 ch. 

54RxP 

KR— Q sq. 
P— QKt4(y) 
P— Kt5 
K<^R4 
KtxP 
K<^Q5 
P— R3 
K— Kt sq. 
P— B4 
PxP 

K<^B6 ch. 
RxR 
Q— KB3 
R (Q sq.)— Q3 
QxKtP 
RxQ 
P— Kt6 
K— B2 
K— K3 
K-Q2 
R— Q7 ch. 
P— Kt7 
R^QB3 
R— Q6ch. 
RxB 
RxP 
K— Ksq. 
RxP ch., and 
wins. 

(a) B — Kt 3 first was much better. 

(6) A useless move, as he cannot venture to capture the Knight after Black's 

judicious reply, 
(c) If 14 B X Kt, 14 P X B; 15 P— KR8, 13 B x P, and should win. 
(<J) This and the next move are weak. He had far better chances of retrieving 

fortunes by trying conclusions in the centre, commencing with P — Q4. 
(e) This advance, though it gets rid of a double<l Pawn, has its ill effects, as he is 

compelled to open the (j file for the adversary and thus to expose his weak 

QP to a strong attack. 
(/) Excellent play. 

(g) A desperate move which loses the exchange. 

(h) If 36 R X P, 86 Q X Kt, followed by Kt— B6 ch., wins still more easily. 
(i) This loses a piece, but his game was past redemption^ 

DEUtAB 8 GAMES. 

868 

Game No. 295. 

Played in the first round, April Ist. 

KING'S BISHOP OPENING. 

White 

J. M. Hauliam. 

IP— K4 
2B— B4 
3P— Q3 
4Q— K2 

5 KKt— B3 

6 0—0 
7B— Kt3 
8QKt— Q2 
9P— B3 

10 B— B2 

11 P— KR3 

12 P— KKt 4 
13PxP(a) 

14 K<^B4 (6) 

15 P— Q4 (c) 
16BxB 
ITKtxQP 

Jihck 

E. Delmar. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
P— B3 
B— K2 
0—0 
P-Q4 
B— KKt5 
P-QR4 
P— R6 
Kt— Q2 
B— R4 
B— Kt3 
KtxP 
KB— K sq. 
PxP 
RPxB 
P— K6 

18Q— B3 
19BxP 

20 Kt— K3 

21 Q— Q sq. 

22 Kt— Kt 2 
23Kt— Kt3 

24 Kt— QB sq. 

25 Kt— Q3 

26 K- B sq. 
27KtxKt 
28Q— B2 
29KtxR 

30 K— Kt sq. 
31QxKt 
32KtxB 
33 P— E4 (e) 
34P— R6 
35 KB— K sq. 
86 Resigns. 

(S^) 

PxP 

Br-E5 
Kir-K4: 

P— QKt4 

B— B4 

B— Kt3 

Q— B3 

K1^QB5 

KtxB 

KtxP 

Q-B6(d) 

QxPch. 

Kt— K7 ch. 

ExQ 

QxKtP 

Q-Q5 

RxKBP(/) 

R— QR7disch. 

(a) Owiny to the rather reckless attack of his opponent. White has obtained the 
superiority of position which chifly rested on the inactivity of Black^s QB. 
By the text move he not alone throws away his advantage, but drops rapidly 
into a much inferior game. R — K sq. , followed by Kt — KB sq. , was his 
proper course. 

(6) If 14 Kt X P, 14 Kt— KB5; 15 Q— B8, 15 Kt x Kt; 16 Q x Kt, 16 Kt x QP, with 
much the superior game. 

(c) It made matters worse for him to open the K file for the adverse Book, and 
besides he ought to have neutralized Black^s very strong 17th move by B— Q2. 

(d)A very fine and deep combination. Black gives up the Queen for three 
pieces, but he calculates with excellent judgment that the position and the 
Pawns which he gains will more than make up for the sacrifice. 

(e) He might have made a better fight of it by KR — K sq. or QR — Q sq., but 
Black's preponderence of Pawns was bound to win, especially as White had 
little prospect of concentrating his forces, and his QKt was almost imprisoned. 

(/) Masterly play. 

(g) A blunder, of course, but even after 35 Rx R, 85 Q x R ch. ; 86 R— B sq., 86 
Q X P; 37 Kt— B8, 87 Q— B2, his game was quite untenable. 

364 

DELMAB S GAMES. 

Game No. 296. 

Played in the second round, April 26th. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

White 

E. Delmar. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4 P— QB3 
5Q— K2 
6P-Q4 
7B— Q3 
8B— K3 
9 QK<^Q2 
lOP— QR3 
IIP— QKt4 

12 R— QB sq. 

13 0—0 

14 KE— K sq. 

Black 

J. M. Haubain. 

P— K4 
P-Q3 
B— K2 
KKt— B3 
P— QB3 
Q— B2 
QK<^Q2 
Kt^B sq. 
B— K3 
P— KR3 
P— QR3 

Klr-Kt3 

0-0 
QE^K sq. 

15 P— QB4 

16 P— Q5 (a) 

17 R— QKt sq. 
18E^Kt2 

19 KB— QKt sq. 

20 B— B2 

21 Kt— K sq. 

22 P— KB3 

23 K<^Q3 

24 Kt— KB sq. 

25 Kl^Kt 3 

26 Kt— B5 

27 P— KKt 4 

28 K— R sq. 

29 Q— B2 

B— Q2 
P— QB4 
P— Kt3 
B— Bsq. 
B— Qsq. 
R— K2 
Q-Q2 
B— B2 
R^Qsq. 
Kt^R2 
P— B3 
R— B2 
Q— K sq. 
K— R sq. 
KK^-B sq. 

Drawn by mntual consent (2>) 

(a) The opening has been of a draggish sort and this tends to block the position. 
16PxP, 16PxP(orl6...KtxP;17KtxKt, 17 PxKt, followed by P—B5); 
17 P — B5, followed soon by Kt— B4, was, we believe, preferable. 

(6) The position was unripe for any attempt to bi-eak in at present, but we 
believe that White had the best of the game, nevertheless. He could either 
afford to wait for a favorable opportunity on the Q side, or perhaps better 
still, he might have closed the same by P — KtS and then dii-ected his heavy 
pieces to the KKt file where the opponent's KRP and KBP fuini.shed good 
marks for an attack on White's part by advancing the KBP and KKtP. 
The draw by agreement in such a position, with full forces on the board, is 
disappointing at least. 

Game No. 297. 
Played in the second round. May 16th. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

WJiite 

E. Delmar. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3P— Q4 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

P— K4 
P-Q3 
Kt— Q2 

14. B— B4 
5P— B3 

6 St— Kt 5 (o) 

7 P— KB4 
8BPxP(6) 
9 0—0 

P— QB3 
Q— B2 

Ktr-R3 

B— K2 

PxP 

0—0 

DELKAB'S OAICES. 

366 

lOQ— Kt3(c) 
IIB— K3 

12 Q— Q sq. 

13 QKt^RS 
UQ— R5 

15 QB— K sq. (e) 
16B— Q3 
17 Kt— B2 

B— B3 
Q— Q3 
B— Qaq. 
B— B2 
P— QR3(d) 
P— QKt4 
P— QR4 
B-Kt2 

18 R— Q sq. 

19 P— QR3 

20 P— K5 (a) 
21QBxP 
22QxKt(j) 
23BxKt 
24Kt— Q4 
25B.xBPmate. 

P— QR5 

PxP(/) 
QxP(A) 
Q— K2 (t) 
K<^B3 
Q— B4 ch. 
PxQ 

(a) This and the move following form a very strong attacking combination. 

(6) His attack would have been quite as strong if he had not exchanged Pawns 
and Castled first, which we consider preferable, as it kept the adverse Queen 
more confined and reserved the option of advancing P — B5. 

(c) Much better was Q — Ro. He has afterward to lose several moves in order to 
gain that square. 

id) Instead of this feeble move Black could have broken the attack by 14. . .Kt — 
B3; 15Q— R4, ISPxP; 16BxP(best, if 15...PxP; 16QxRPch., 16QxQ; 
ITBxQch., 17KxB; 18 KKt— Kt5ch., with a Pawn ahead), 16...B— Kt3, 
etc. 

(-€) We can see no reason why White did not capture the BP with the Knight, 
which, besides winning a Pawn, would have given him an irresistible attack, 
e. g.y 15 KtxBP, 15 KtxKt ; 16 RxKt, 16 K— R sq.! 17 QR— KB sq., and 
Black cannot stir, for if 17. . .Kt— B3 ; 18 QRx Kt, and wins. 

(/) Black drops at last into an ingeniously hidden trap. He ought to have avoid- 
ed the exchange of Pawns still longer. 

(</) Very fine and decisive. 

(A) His best chance was now 20 . . . Kt x P ; but he was bound to lose after 21 B x P 
ch., 21 K— Rsq.; 22 KtxQP, followed by Kt— B5, etc. 

(i) Overlooking his only defence, napiely: 21 . . .B — KtS. 

(J) This ingenious stroke wins in fine style. 

Game No. 298. 
Played in the first round, March 27th. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

P-Q4 
KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt— B3 
B— Kt5 
B— 114 

(a) P — Q4 is a better answer. 

(5) As the opponent was preparing to Castle on the other side, the advance of 

this Pawn was quite inadvisable since it gave, especially the adverse KKtP, 

easier opportunities of breaking through later on. 

White 

Black 

4PxP 

N. MiicLeod. 

IP— K4 
2P QB3 
3P— Q4 

E. Delmar. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 (o) 
KtxP 

SPxPenpasB. 
6Kt— B3 
7B— Q3 

8 0—0 

9 P— KR3 (b) 

366 

10 B— KB4 

11 QKt-Q2 
12Q— Kt3 
13BxKt 
14Q— Kt5(rf) 
ISBxB 
16QxKKtP 
17Q— Kt4 
18PxQ 
19 K<^K4 
20KtxBch. 
21P— KKt3 
22 K— Kt 2 
23PxP 
24Klr-B4 

25 B— B sq. 

26 QBr-K sq. 

(c) Black had much the best of the game, but altogether 8i)oiIs his position by 
this impetuous move which loses a valuable I'awn. Q x B was the correct 
play. 

(d) Excellent play. He threatens B— B5 besides Q x KKtF. 

(e) Making matters worse, as it could not succeed excepting by some blunder 
on the other side. 

(/) White's play in this game, after the opponent's mistake, is highly commend- 
able. 

DEUCAB S OAJIES. 

Q-Q2 

27 Kt— Kt 6 

BxB 

0-0-0 

28BxB 

BxB 

P— KKt4 

29KxE 

K— Ksq. 

BxB(c)l 

30K— Kt2 

K— B2 

B-Kt3 

31 P— B3 

PxPch. 

BPxB 

32KxP 

K— B3 

B B4 

33K— B4 

P— Kt4 

QxQ 

34P— KKt4 

P— Kt5 

B^B3 

35P— Kt5ch. 

K— Kt2 

QB— Bsq. 

36Kt^K7(/) 

Ki^K4 

PxKt 

37 P— B6 ch. 

K— B2 

P— KKt4 

38 K— B5 

P— E4 

P— B4 (c) 

39P— Kt6ch. 

KtxP 

P— Kt6 

40KtxKt 

P— B6 

K<^K2 

41 Kir-B8 ch. 

K— Kt sq. 

K Q2 
Kt— B3 

42 P— B7 ch. 

K— Kt2 

43P— B3 

Besigns. 

Game No. 299. 

Played in the second round, April 20th. 

PHILIDOB'8 DEFENCE. 

WMte 
E. Delmar. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt-B3 

3P-Q4 

4QxP 

5B— QKt6 

6BxKt 

7B— KKt5 

8BxKt 

9QxQ 
10 QKt-B3 
llKt— Q4 

Black 

N. MacLeod. 

P— K4 

P— Q3 

PxP 

QKt— B3 

B-Q2 

BxB 

KKt— B3 (a) 

QxB 

PxQ 

0—0—0(6) 

BxP(c) 

12KtxB 

13 P— KB3 

14 O— 0—0 

15 P— KB4 

16 Kt— B5 

17 KB— K sq. 

18 P— KKt 3 
19E— Q2 
20B^Q3 
21 K— Q2 
22KxB 
23E— K3 
24KxP 
25KtxB 

E— Ksq. 
P-Q4 
PxKt 
B— B4 
P— K6 
E^K6 
P— K7 
KB— Ksq. 
B— B7 
BxBch. 
Br-Qsq. 
B— Q8 ch. 
BxBch. 
R-QE8 

DELMAB 8 OAJCES. 

367 

26 P— QR3 
27P— QKt3 

28 Kt— Q5 

29 Kt^B6 ch. 

30 Kin-Q5 ck 

31 K<^K3 

32 Kt— Q sq. 
33P— R3 
34K— Q2 
35K1^B3 ' 
36P— KB4 
37 Kir-K2 
38Kt— Q4 
39KtxQBP 
40Kt— Q4 

41 K— K3 

42 P— B4 
43PxP 

id) 

B— QKt8 
K— Q2 
P— KB4 
K— K2 
K— Q3 
K— K3 
K— B3 (e) 
P— B3 
P— QKt4 
B^KES 
B— KKtS 
R-QB8 
ExP 

Br-B3(/) 

B— Q3 
P— QB3 
PxP 
P-QB4 

44P— B5 
45ExB 
46K— B4 
47 P— B6 (A) 
48K— Kt3 
49KxP 
60K— Kt3 
61P— B6 
62 K— B4 
53K— Q6 
64 K— K6 
66 K— B6 
66K— Kt7 
67KxBP 
58K— Kt7 

59 P— B7 

60 P queens 

BxKt(gr) 
P— B5 
K— K3 
P— B6 
K-Q4 
KxP 
K-Q6 
K— K6 
K— B6 
KxP 
K— Kt5 
KxP 
K— K6 
P— B6 
P— B6 
P— B7 
P qneens 
Drawn. 

(a) B«tter than P — KBS at this point, which leaves an unconvenient hole in the 
centre at K8. 

(6) The "Modern Chess Instructor" recommends here 10...P— B4; 11 PxP, 11 
KR— Kt sq.; 13 K— B sq., 12 O— O— O, with the better game. 

(c) The best reply to White's weak last move.^ 

id) If 80 Kt X P, 30 B— KB7; 81 P— KIU, 81 R— R7 ch. ; 82 K— Q8, 88 R-KKt 7, 
and wins. 

(e) Black's play has been thus far almost faultless, and if he had not wasted time 
here, he had an easy victory by 82 . .R— R8; 88 P— QR4, 83 K— Q4; 34 Kt— 
B3 ch., 84 K— B4, followed by K— Kt 5 and the advance of the QBP. 

(/) P — QK4 'was here much stronger. 

(g) Black impetuously sacrifices the exchange when he could have won without 
difficulty by 44...R— Q4; 45 P— B6, 4S B— B4; 46Kt— Kt8, 46RxP (not 
46 . . . Rr-B6 ch. ; 47 K— Qa, 47 R x Kt; 48 P— B7, and wins) ; 47 Kt x P, 47 R— 
B4; 48 Kt— Kt 7, 48 B— Q4, and wins. 

(A) White's play for a draw on this and the 47th move should be compared with 
the .^Sth move, and it will be seen that he effects his purpose by a remarkably 
ingenious and far-sighted combination. 

368 

DELKAB 8 aAMEB. 

Game No. 800. 

Played in the second round, April 25th. 
IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 
E. Delmar. 

1 P— KB4 

2 KKt— B3 
3P— K3 
4B— K2 
6P— QKt3 
6B— Kt2 
70—0 

8 P— QR3 
9Kir-K5 

lOPxKt 

UQxB 

12 Q— »5 ch. 

Black 
N. MacLeod. 

P-Q4 
QKt— B3 (a) 
B— Kt5 
P— K3 
P— B4 
Kt^B3 
P— QR3 
P— R3 (b) 
KtxKt(c) 
BxB 
Kt— K5 
K— Q2 

13 P— Q3 

14 Q— B3 

15 K^-B3 
16KtxP 
ITQxPch. 
18PxB 

19 K— R sq. 

20 QR— K sq. 

21 B— K5 (e) 

22 Q— Kt 7 ch. 
23B— B4 
24PxKt 
25RxPch. 
26BxRPdi8ch. 

Q— Kt4 

Kt^B4 

P— QKt3(r/) 

PxKt 

B— Q3 

QxKPch. 

PxP 

Q-Q7 

Kl^KS 

K— K3 

QxBP 

PxP 

K— B4 

Resigns. 

-QB4 

(a) In accordance with the spirit of this opening he should advance F 
before bringing out this Knight to its present post. 

(b) As usual we disapprove of these kind of waiting moves on either side. 

(c) This exchange subjects him to considerable attack. 

(d)A grave error which compromises his game beyond remedy, 
(e) After this the manner of his winning becomes mere detail, but, as will be 
noticed. White infuses some life and spirit in his termination. 

Game No. 801. 

Played in the first round, April 3d. 

WhiU 

D. M. lilartinez. 

IP— K4 
2KK1H-B3 
3B— B4 

4 0-0 

5 P— QB3 
6K1r-R3 
7K1^B2 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

Black 

8Kfr-K3 

E. Delmar. 

9PxB 

lOP— cp:t4 

11 Kir-k.t2 

P-K4 

QK1^B3 

12 P QR4 

B— B4 

13B— K2 

P— Q3 

14 P Q3 

B— Kt3 

16 P— QR5 
16 K— R sq. 

B— KKt5 

Q— B3 

17B— K3 

QBxKt 
KKt^K2 
K<^Kt3 
Kt— Q sq. 
P— QR3 
K<H-K3 
P— KR4 
B— R2 
P— B3 
KKt— B6 

ISKtxKt 

19 B X Kt 

20 Q— K aq. (n) 

21 QE— Q sq. 

22 P— Q4 (b) 
23PxP 
24Q— B3 
25BxRP(c) 
26QxPcb. 
27QxEP 

28 K— Kt sq. 

29 K— R sq. 
30Q— Kt5ch. 

DELMAB8 GAMES. 

KtxKt 

31 Q— K5 ch. 

QxB 

32 P— Q5 

P— KKt4 

33 Q B5 

0 0 0 

34 R— QKt sq. 

PxP 

35 P— Q6 (d) 

P-Q4 

36 KR— QB sq. 

PxP 

37 Q— QKt 5 

PxB 

38R— B6 

K— Kt sq. 

39QxQ 

QxPch. 

40R-B7 

Q— Kt 5 ch. 

41R— Kt2 

Q— B sq. 

42 Resigns. 

Q Kt2 

369 

K— E sq. 
KE— K sq. 
QxKtP 
Q— K2 
ExP 
E— Q2 
Q-K3 

Q-Q4 (e) 
ExQ 
P— KB4 
ExP 

(a) The two parties have developed in an original manner, and the outcome of 

their early manoeuvring is equality in position and forces which could be still 

more assured by Q — QB sq. at this juncture. 
(6) An error which costs an important Pawn. Q — Q2 first would have made the 

advance safe. 
(c) Though his position has deteriorated, there was hardly any need for such a 

desperate answer, and he had good drawing prospects *^with Bishops of 

opposite colors if he had played Q — K3. 
{d)ln order to open the Q side for his inactive Queen, but it can make no 

impression on Black^s surplus of a piece. 
(e) The natural and easiest way to break all resistance. 

Game No. 302. 

Played in the second round, April 29th. 
GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 

Black 

E. Delmar. 

D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QK<^B3 

3B— B4 

B— B4 

4 P— B3 

Kt-B3 

6Q K2 

P Q3 

6P Q3 

P— KR3 

7 P— QKt 4 

B Kt3 

8P— QR4 

P-QR4 

9P— Kt5 

10 B— K3 

11 P— KR3 

12 PxB 

13 QKt— Q2 
14KtxB 

15 QR-B sq. 

16 0—0 

17 KKt— Q2 

18 Kt— Kt 3 

19 Q— R2 

K<^K2 
Kt— Kt 3 (a) 
BxB 
B— K3 
BxB 

P— Kt3(6) 
Q— K2 
0—0—0 
K— Kt2 
R— QB sq. 
KR— KB sq. (c) 

(a) P — B3 is here better, for in reply to the text move White could advan- 
tageously exchange Bishops. 
(6) All the more weak, as he intends to Castle on the Q side, 
(c) K — Kt sq. was better with the same object, viz., to remove the KKt safely, 

370 

DELUAB8 GAMES. 

20 Kt (B4)— 02 
21P— B4 

22 P— Q4 

23 P— B5 
24PxP 

25 Q— B2 

26 Kt— B4 

27 KR— Q sq. 

28 Q— Q2 
29PxP 

30 Q— Q6 ch. 

31BxQ 

32KtxKtP(e) 

33KtxR 

34RxKtcb. 

35B^K6 

36 P— Kt 6 

37 Kt— Kt 3 

38 Kt— B5 cb. 
39KtxEcli. 
40KtxPck 
41K<^Kt3 
42 K— B2 
43Kt— Q2 
44K— K2 

45 Kt— B3 

46 Kt— E4 

47 Kt-B5 
48KtxP 

Q— K3 
Kt— Q2 
Kt-K2 
QPxP 
K— Kt 8q. 
K— QB sq. (li) 
P— KB3 
R— R2 
Kt— KB sq. 
PxP 
QxQ 
Kt^Q2 
RxRck 
KtxKt 
K— B2 
K— Q2 
R^Kt2(/) 
KxR 
K-Q3 
K— B3 
KxP 
Kt— B3 
Kt— R4 
K— B4 
K— Kt5(«/) 
Kt— B5 
KxP 
P— Kt4 
Kt— Q3 

49 K— B3 

50Kt-Kt4 

51KtxBP 

52 Kt— R7 

53 KxP 

54 K— B3 

55 Kt-Kt 5. 

56 P— KKt 3 

57 P— R4 

68 K— K2 
59 Kt^B3 
60P— Kt4 

61 K— Q3 

62 P— R5 
63P— Kt5 
64P— Kt6 
66KtxP 

66 K— Q4 

67 Kt— B3 
68K— K5 

69 Kt— R4 

70 Kt— B5 ch. 

71 P— Kt 7 

72 K— K6 

73 P— K5 

74 Klr-K7 ch. 

75 KtxKt 

76 K— Q7 

K— Kt5 
Kt— B5 (//) 
K— B4 
P— Kt 5 ch. 
KtxPch. 
Kt— B5 
K-Q3 
K— K2 
K— B3 
Kt— Kt7 
Kt— B5 
Kt— Q3 
K— K3 
Kt— B2 
K— K2 
Kt— R3 
K— K3 
K— B3 
K— Kt2 
Kt— Kt sq. 
K— R3 
KxP 
K— Kt3 
Kt— B3 
Kt— Kt sq. 
KxP 
KxKt 
Resigns. 

which he could not do at once, e. g.: 18...Kt— Q2; 20RxP, 20QxR; 
31 KtxQPch., 21 PxKt; 32 KtxRPch., wiuning the Queen, with a strong 
attack. 

(d) R — R3 would have saved time. 

(c) By far stronger was R — K6 first, which would have driven the adverse 
Knight into comparative inutility for the ending, or else would have 
compelled Black to remove R — K sq. in oi-der to defend the piece that was 
thus attacked, and in either' case White could then capture the KtP with 
greater advantage. 

(/) 36 . . . R— R sq. ; 37 P— Kt 7, 37 R— QKt sq. ; *38 R— Kt 6 (or 38 R— R6, 38 
Rx P, threatening R — Kt8), 38. . .K — B2, would have ensured the draw. 

{g) Kt — B3, with the view of playing Kt— K2 eventually, was now the right play. 

(/t) An error. His only chance of drawing was to preserve the KBP. His King 
was then in time to stop the advance of the passed RP which White could 
form by P— KKt 3 and P— KR4. After this Black's game is lost, and the 
opponent, though he wastes some moves, wins finally in pretty style. 

DELHAR 8 GAMES. 

371 

Game Nu. 303. 

Played in the first rovnid, April 2d. 

FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME. 

White 

Bhck 

E. Dehnar. W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 

2 KK^-B3 

3 QKt— B3 

4 B— Kt 5 
oBxKt 
6KtxP 

7 KtxKt 

8 0—0 

9 B^K sq. 

10 P— Q4 

11 P— KKt4 

12 B— Kt 5 ((■) 

13 P— Q5 
14QxP 
ISKtxBch. 
16 Q— KB5 
17QxQ 

18 QE— Q sq. 
19K— Q2 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
KKt— B3 
P— QE3 kt) 
QPxB 
KtxP 
Q— Q6 
QxKKt 
B— K3 
Q-KB4 (h) 
Q— Kt3 
P— KR4 id) 
PxP 
B— Q3 («) 
PxKt 
K-Q2 
PxQ(/) 
QR^QB sq. 
PxP 

20 P— QKt 3 
21B— B4 
22B— K5 
23BxKtP 

24 B— K5 . 

25 K— Kt 2 
26K— Kt3 
27B^K3 
28B— B6 
29PxR 
30 E— Q4 
31BxP 
32B— Q8 
33 P— K4 
34B— B7 
35RxQPch. 
36 B^QR6 
37BxP 
38KxP 

39 E^Q6 ch. 

40BxPch. 

41BxE 

P— QKt4 

E-B3 

P-QKt5(gr) 

E— KKt sq. 

KE— QB sq. {h) 

B— B4 

E— Ksq. 

P— Kt4(t) 

ExE 

ExP 

K— K3 

P— E4 

ExQEP 

B— E2 

E— E6 

K— K2 

K-Q2 

BxP 

B-Kt2 0') 
KxE(ifc) 
K— B3 
K— Kt3 

(rt) There is no better play at thi.s juncture than to form the Double Ruy Lopez 

by 4...B— Kt.5. 
(6) Not a.s good as 10. . .Q— Q4. 
(c) Initiating a pretty combination, but hardly as efficient, and even safe, as 13 

Kt— Kt .5. 
{(/) For Black would have obtained the better game bv 12. . . P— KR3; 13 P— KB4 

(if 13B— R4, 13 P— KB4, etc.), 13...PxB; 14 P— B5, 14 Q— R3; 15 Q— K2; 

15 0—0—0; 16 P X B, 16 P x P, etc. 
(e) Best. If 14. . .B X Q; 15 Kt — B sq. double ch., and mates next move. 
(/) Nothing more than a draw should ensue from this position. 
ig) 31 R — R4, with the view of offering the exchange of Rooks by R — Q4 if 

White took the KtP, was mnch superior. 
(h) Loss of time. R — K sq. was the proper play. 
( 0 His K side becomes very weak through this, and his Bishop lo.ses support at 

an important po.st. K— B3 was the best plan. 
(J) Overlooking the adverse ingenious reply. B — Q4 would have drawn with 

case. 
{k) His game was gone. If 39. . .K— K2; 40 B x P, followed accordingly by R — 

R6 di.sch. or R — QKt 6 disch., and wins. Or if 39. . .K— K 8q.(of course he is 

mated if he play K— B sq.); 40 R— Q8 ch., 40 K— K2; 41 B x P ch., and wins in 

a manner similar to tliat which occurred in actual play. 

372 

DELMAB 8 OAHES. 

42B— K7 
43P— Kt4 
44 P— 114 
45K— B4 

46 P— E5 

47 B— B5 

48 P— E6 

49 K— K3 

B— Q4 
B— K5 
K— B3 
B-Q6 
K-Q2 
K— K3 
K— B3 
B— K2 

50 P— Kt 5 

51 P— Kt 6 
52K— B4 
53 K— K5 
64K— B6 

55 K— Kt 7 

56 P— B7 

K— K3 
K-Q2 
K— B sq. 
K— Q2 
K— B3 
B— K5 
BxP 

67 K X B, and wins. 

Game No. 804. 

Played in the second round, April 27th. 

HUNGARIAN DEFENCE. 

Wkit^ 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4P— Q4 
5 Kt— B3 
6B— K3 
7B— QKt5(a) 
8QxP 
9Q— Q2 
lOKtxKt 

11 B— Q3 

12 P— B3 

13 0—0 

14 K— B sq. 

15 Q— B2 
16P— QE4 
17Q— Kt3 

18 B— E6 

19 P— B4 
20PxKt 
21PxP 

22 B— B4 

23 P— K5 

24 Q— K3 
25B— Kt3 
26QxB 

27 K<^K4 

28 Q— B2 {d) 

29 Kt— Q6 

Black 
E. D«lmar. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— K2 
P-Q3 
K1^B3 
B— KKt5 
PxP 
0-0 
Kt-K4 
PxKt 
P— B3 
B— K3 
Q— B2 
QB^Q sq. 
P— QKt3 
K1^Q2 
Kt-B4 (b) 
B— B3 
KtxB 
K— R sq. 
QxP 
Q— KR4 
B— R5 
P— KKt 4(c) 
BxB 
R-Q5 
KB- Q sq. 
Q— Kt3 
RxP 

30 P— R5 

31 PxP 
32Er-R7 

33 Q— K2 

34 P— KKt 3 

35 K— Kt sq. 

36 P— K6 
37KRxP(<7) 
38KtxRch. 
39QxQ 

40 Kt— Kt 6 

41 K— B2 

42 Kt— B7 

43 Kt X P ch. 
44RxRch. 

45 K1^B7 

46 K^-K5 

47 K— K3 

48 K— B4 
49KtxPch. 

50 K1H-K3 

51 K— K4 

52 K— B5 

53 P— KKt 4 

54 K— B6 
55P— Kt5 
56 PxP 
57P— Kt6 
58P— Kt7 
59P— R4 

60 P— R5 (t) 

61 Kt— B2 ch. 

P— QB4 
PxP 

R— KB sq. 
R-Q5 
P— Kt5 
B— Q4(p) 
QxP(/) 
RxR 
K— Kt sq. 
BxQ 
B— B4 
P— R3 {!,) 

Rr-Q2 

K— R2 
BxR 
K— Kt2 
B— K3 
K— B3 
P— Kt4 
K— K2 
K-Q3 
B— B2 
P— B5 
P— Kt5 
B— Q4 
P— B6 
PxP 
B— K5 
B— R2 
K— B4 
K— Q5 
K— K5 

DELXAB S OAKES. 

373 

62 P— B6 
63Kt— Kt4 
64Kt— Q5 
65KtxP 

66 Kt— Q5 

67 K1^K7 

K— B5 
K— Kt5 
K— K4 
KxP 
B— Kt aq. 
K— R2 

68 Kt— Kt 6 

69 Kt-K5 

70 K— Kt 6 

71 Kt— QB6 

72 K— E6 

B— R7 

K— Ktsq.O') 
B— K3(^ 
B— B4 ch. 
Besigns. (l) 

(a) A sort of Fhilidor's Deftiiice, in which White is a move behind, has resulted 
from the openiuaf. White would have done better on the fourth move to play 
P-QB3. 

(6) K — U sq. instead would have saved him much trouble. 

(c) His KB sq. is a sore point of his game after this advance, and his King 
becomes much exposed. 

(d) More solid and, therefore, presumably more effective on its merits was 
Kt— Q«. 

(e) The simple Q — Q6 would have given him a telling superiority of position, and 
he is already a Pawn ahead for the ending. 

(/, Dropping into an ingeniously laid trap. There was no reason against B x P. 
(9) Charming play. He threatens RxPch., followed by mate with the other 

Book. 
(A) Uselessly throwing away a Pawn, whereas we believe that after 41 . . . 

B— Q7ch.; 43 K— K3, 4aBxKtP, followed by the advance of P-B6, he 

could win without difficulty. 

(f) This goes very near to letting the victory slip, while K— Q4 would have given 
him time to advance the RP further, and then his winning was assured. 

(J) At last he walks into the trap which his astute opponent had still held in 
reserve. The point of this very curious position is just that he should not 
move the K — Kt sq., but rather keep him at B8 or R2, and also, as long as 
possible, to guard KKt sq. with his Bishop at a distance. 

(k) His game is lost now as White also threatens Kt — Q7 or Kt — Kt 4 with the 
same effect. 

(I) For if K— B2, White still answers Kt— K7. 

Game No. 805. 

Played in the first round, April 10th. 
SICILIAN DEFENCE. 

fVhite 

J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3i 
3P-Q4 
4KtxP 
5 QKt— B3 

Black 

E. Delmar. 

P— QB4 
QKt— B3 
PxP 
P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 

6B— K3 
7B— K2 

8 0—0 

9 P— B4 (a) 

10 B— B3 

11 P— KR3 

12 Q-Q2 

13 QR— Q sq. 

P-Q3 
B— Q2 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
Q— B sq. 
0-0 
Q— B2 
QKt— B4 

(o) Here and even previously Kt— Q5 would have greatly improved his position. 

374 

14P— QKt3 

15 KKt-K2 (i) 

16 Br— B sq. 

17 Kt— Q sq. 

18 K<^B2 
19QxKtP 

20 Q-Q2 

21 P— B4 

22 Kt— Kt 3 (d) 

23 Kt— K2 

24 QR— Q sq. 

25 Kt— B3 
26BxBP 
27 Kt-Q3 
28B— Kt6 
29KtxKt 
30 Kt— Q5 
31KPxB 
32BxKt 
33BxKP 
34R-B3 

35 K— R sq. 

36 QR— KB sq. 

37 Q— QB2 
38B— Q3 
39 P— Kt 3 
40Q— KKt2(/) 
41R— B4 

42 Q— QB2 
43Q— KKt2 
44 Q-QB2 
45P— KKt4(o) 
46RxKtP 
47Rr-Kt3 
48BxP(/0 
49QxPcli. 
SORxQch. 

51 R— QB6 

52 R— KB7 ck 
53R— B4 
54K— Kt2 

55 K— B3 

DELUAB S GAMES. 

QR— B sq. 

56K— Kt4 

RxRch. 

P-QKt4 

57KxR 

R— K7 

P— Kt5 

58 P QR4 

R-QKt 7 

Klr-B3 

59 R-B8 ch. 

K— B2 

Kt-Qsq.(c) 

60R— QKt8 

B B4 

R— Kt sq. 

61 R-Kt 7 ch. 

K— B3 

Kt— B3 

62P— R4 

B— Kt6 

KR— Q sq. 

63 R— Kt 6 ch. 

K— B2 

P-KR4 

64K— B5 

RxP 

P— K4 

65 R Kt7ch. 

K— K sq. 
R— B6 ch. 

B K3 

66 P— B5 

PxP 

67 K— Ke ■ 

R K6ch. 

Kt- K4 . 

68 K— Q6 

R-K5 

QR— B sq. 

69 P— R5 

R R5 

K^Q2 

70 K— K6 

R— K5 ch. 

PxKt 

71 K Q6 

R R5 

BxKt 

72 K— K6 

R— K5 ch. 

P— K5 (e) 

73 K— B5 

R-R5(./) 

BxB 

741i— KtSch. 

K-Q2 

B K2 

75 P— B6 ch. 

K— B2 

R— Ksq. 

76 R— Kt 7 ch. 

K— B sq. 

P— R4 

77 R— KR7 

B B4 

B Kt5 

78 P— R6 

RxQRP 

Q— K4 

79 R KKt7 

R— R5 

B-Q3 

80 P— R7 

B-Q5 

B B4 

81 R— KB7 

R R3 

R(Q2) K2 

82 K— K4 

B B6 

Q— B6 

83 K— Q3 

B-K4 

Q K4 

84 R Q7 

B Kt7 

Q B6 

85 K— B2 

B— Q5 

Q— K4 

86 K— Q3 

B— Kt7 

PxP 

87R— R7 

R— R6 ch. 

Q R4 

88 K— B2 

B— Q5 

R-K6 

89RxP 

K— B2 {k) 

PxB 

90R^R4 

B Kt3 

QxQ 

91R— KKt4 

RxP 

K-R2 

92R— Kt6 

B Q5 

B-Q5 

93 K— Q3 

B— K4 

K— Kt sq. 

94 K— K4 

R K2 

R^KB ch. 

95R— K6 

R— KtSch. 

Drawn. 

R— B8ch.(t) 

(6) Not as good as reti-eating the other Knight the .same way. 

(e) An oversight, no doubt. 

(</) His attack was now clearly on the other wing, and he only wastes time with 

this move. 
(e) Relying on remaining with Bishops of opposite colors, which often gives 

drawing chances even against a superiority of Pawns. 
(/) Q — Q2, followed by Q — KB4, had more promising aspects. 

DELMAB8 GAMES. 

375 

<y) Considering the position of his King, this advance does not create a very 

Jiopeful position for winning purposes, and evidently the opponent could play 

for no more. 
(It) And this still less improves his auspices. 

(t) R — K6 ch., followed by R — Ko disch., would have drawn at once. 
ij) Some rei)etition moves were made here by both parties. 
(k) Both parties have courageously fought for a win iu dubious positions, but now 

that Black's King cau no more be confined on the last row while White's 

King is far oS, the draw is declared. 

Game No. 800. 

Played in the second round, May 10th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 
E. Delmar. 

1 P— KB4 

2 KKt— B3 
3P— K3 
4 P— QKt3 
5B— Kt2 
6B— Q3 
7P— QR3 
8Kt— Kt5 
9Q— B3 

10 Kt— K4 

llBxKt 

12PxBP 

13 K— Q sq. (6) 

(a) Quite a relief for White*s Q side which has only been sadly blocked by the 
latter's premature K side attack. R — K sq. would have improved Black's 
position. 

(6) Unnecessary. He might have quite as well advanced P — KKt 8 now as on 
the next move without spoiling his right to Castle. 

(c) It was dangerous to win the QBP after exchanging the Bishop, as Black would 
afterward play Rr— QKt sq., followed by B— Kt3 and Q— Q3, gaining a fine 
command of important diagonals. 

(d) Not as strong, we believe, as 17. . .Kt— Q4, for if 18 B x Kt (or 18 B x R, 18 B 
— Kt5; 19 B X Kt, 19 Q X B ! , and wins); 19 B x B, 19 Kt— K4; 20 B x Kt, 20 P 

X B; 21 P — Q6, with a vehement attack. 

{e) White is getting confused by the opponent's da.shing attack. 23 Kt x B ch., 
23 P X Kt; 24 KtP x P, 24 KR^Kt sq. (or 24. . . R^K6, 25 Q— Kt 2, etc.); 25 
QR — R2 made his position all right, with two Pawns ahead. 

(/) Feeble. After B — K2 instead White could not hold out long. 

Black 

J. W. Showalter. 

P-Q4 
KKjt-B3 
P— K3 
P— QB4 
B— K2 

Ktr-B3 

0—0 
P— Q5 
P— K4 

KtxKt(a) 
PxBP 
B— R5 cL 
R— Ksq. 

14P— Kt3 

15 P— Q3 (c) 

16 Kt— Q2 
17BxKtP 
18B— K4 

19 K— B sq. 

20 P— KR3 
21BxKt 
22 K1^K4 
23KtPxP(e) 
24PxB 

25 R— K sq. 

26 R— QKt sq. 

27 Q— Q3 
28RxR 
29 K— Q2 

B— B3 
B— K3 
Kt— K2 
R— Kt sq. {<!) 
Q-Q2 
R^Kt3 
Ki^B4 
BxB 
P— B5 
BxKt 
Q— B3 
KR— Kt sq. 
Q— Kt2 
RxB 
QxRch. 
Q-B6ch.(/) 

376 

30 K— K2 
31QxQ 

32 K— Q3 

33 R— QR sq. 
34RxP 

35 K— K3 

36 K— B3 

37 P— QB5 
38P— B6 

39 R— R6 

40 P— K5 

41 P— B5 

42 K— K4 

43 P— K6 

(g) Much inferior to B»— B4, which preserved his passed RP, guarded his own jwc- 

ond row against the usually inconvenient entrance of the adverse Rook, and 

kept the hostile King quite confined. 
(h) Black has made a very fine defence and the most of his position under great 

difficulties, but it is not enough against the large material odds on the other 

side. 

delhab's games. 

B K2 

44PxP 

RxP 

PxQ 

45P— K7 

R— K7ch. 

BxP 

46 E Q5 

P— B7 

B-Kt7(</) 

47 R-R7 ch. 

K— Bsq. 

R — Q sq. ch. 

48 K Q6(/)) 

K— Kt sq. 

B B8ch. 

49 P— B7 cL. 

KxR 

K— B sq. 

60 BP queens 
51 K— Q5 

B R6ch. 

K— K sq. 

P queens 

B^Bsq. 

62 Q— Q7 ch. 

K— Kt3 

K Qsq. 

63 Q Q8ch. 

Q— B2 

K-B2 

64 P queens 

RxQ 

R-Qsq. 

55QxR 

Q-Q3ch. 

R-Q7 

56 K— K4 

Q K2ch. 

PxP 

57QxQ 

B X Q, and wins. 

Game No. 307. 

Played in the first round, March 29th. 
QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White 

Black 

E. Delmar. 

J. Taubenhaus. 

1P-Q4 

P Q4 

2P— K3 

KKt— B3 

3B— Q3 

P— K3 

4 KKt— B3 

B— Q3 

5 P— QKt 3 

P QKt 3 

6B Kt2 

0 — 0 

7 QKt-Q2 

B— Kt2 

8 P— QR3 

P— B4 

9 Kt— Kt 5 

QK<^-Q2 

10 Q K2 

R— K sq. (a) 

11 Q B3(6) 

PxP 

12 P— KR4 (c) 

Kt— K4 

13Q— R3 

KtxBch. 

14PxKt 

PxP 

15 PxP 

P— K4 

16 0—0 

P— KR3 

17 Q— B3 

18 Kt^R3 

19 K<^KB2 

20 B— B sq. 

21 PxP 

22 Q— Q sq. 

23 Kt— B4 
24B— Kt2 
26QRxQ 
26BxKt 
27 K<^Q6 
28Kt— Kt4 
29 Kt X B ch. 
30R— B6(/) 
31 KR-Q5 
32QRxB 
33K«^B5 
34K— B2 

35 R— KR sq. 

Q— Q2 
QR— B sq. 
R— B7 
P— K5 (d) 
PxP 
R— B2 
B— Kt6 
QxQ 
BxP 
BxB 
R— K3 
B— R3(e) 
PxKt 
R-Q2 
B— Q6 
PxR 
K— R2 
R^B3 
P— Q7 

DEUCAB S GAMES. 

377 

36 I^-Q sq. 

37 K— K2 
38ExB 
39Kt— Q4 

R-B8 
RxE 
R-Q6 
K— Kt3 

40P— KKt4 

41 K<^B3 ch. 

42 Resigns. 

K-Kt4 
KxP 

(a) Pceuaring a severe punishment for White's unscientific early onslaught by 
PxP, foUowed by P— K4. 

(b) This does not mend matters. The retreat of KKt — B8 was his only remedy. 

(c) If 18 PxP, 13P— K4; 18 PxP (or 18 Q— R8, 18 P— K5, followed by P— 
KR.3), 18 . . . Kt X P; 14 B X Kt. 14 R X Kt cb. , and wins a piece. 

(d) Black's two centre Pawns formed a wall against the entrance of White's minor 
pieces, and we think it was better to leave them untouched and to double 
the Rooks on the open QB file, followed by QR— B6, which would have made 
it much more difficult for White to disentangle his crowded pieces without 
loss. 

(e) A very skilful move, and practically decisive. 

(/) His only other alternative was 80 KR — K sq., 80 B— Q6, followed soon by 
R — B6, with a winning game. But, of course, the text move is also fatal, for 
he must now lose the exchange. 

Game No. 808. 

Played in the second round, April 23d. 

CENTRE COUNTER GAMBIT. 

Wliite 
J. Tanbenhans. 

IP— K4 

2PxP 

3QKt— B3 

4Kt-B3 

5P— Q4 

6B— Q3 

70--0 

8Q— K2 

9Kt— K4 
lOBxKt 
UP— B3 

Black 
E. Delmar. 

P-Q4 
QxP 

Q-Qsq. 
P— K3 
KKt— B3 
P— B3 
B— Q3 
" B2 
txKt 
Kl^-Q2 
Kt— B3 

12B— B2 

13 Kt-K5 

14 B— B4 (a) 

15 B— KKt 3 

16 B— KR4 
i7 P— KB4 
18P— R4 
19B— K4 
20QPxB(6) 
21P— R6 

22 PxP en 

23 PxP 
24BxKt(c) 
26R— B2 

P— QKtS 
B— Kt2 
0—0—0 
P— R4 
QB— Kt sq. 
P— B4 
Kt— Q4 
BxKt 
K— Ktsq. 
P— B4 
KKtPxP 
PxP 
BxB 
Q— KB2 

(a) As Black evidently intended to Castle on the Q side and then to attack the 
K side, it was not advisable to make this piece a mark of the hostile Pftwns, 
especially as P — KB4 at once would have much strengthened his centre. 

(6) White had still the advantage and could have added to the strength of his 
position by 20 BPxP, fearless of 20.. .P— KEt4; 21 QB— EB2, 21 Kt— B5; 
23 Q— B2, 22 P X P; 28 B X P, etc. 

(e) The more enterprising 24 P— B6 might have led to the following continua- 

378 

26Q— Kt5 

27P— QKt4 

28BxB 

29PxP 

30R— Bsq. 

31KxR 

32QxPch. 

tion: a4...Kt— B5; 25RxKt, 25QxR; 26BxB, 26KxB! (if 26...QxB; 
27 B— B3, with a fine attack); 27 B— Kt 8, 27 R x B ! (after 27. . .Q x P or — 
KKt 5; 28 Q— R6 ch., 28 K— B3; 29 P— B4, tlireateuing Q— B4 or — Kt 5 ch.. 
Black's game is hopeless); 28PxR, a8QxBP; 29R— KBsq., with the 
superior game. 
(d) The manner in which Black has played for a draw, since our last comment, is 
very clever and instructive. If now White reply P x P, he commences an end- 
less series of checks by Q — KB4. 

DELMAB S QAHES. 

K— B2 

33B B2 Q Q2 

B— Bsq. 

34B— Q4 P Ki{d) 

BxB 

36 Q— B5 ch. K— B sq. 

B— RBch. 

36 Q B6ch. K Qsq. 

BxBch. 

37 Q— Kt 6 ch. K— K sq. 

PxP 

Drawn. 

B— B3 

Game No. 309. 

Played in the second round, May 2d. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White 

Black 

E. Delmar. 

J. Taubenhaus. 

IP— KB4 

P— K3 

2 KKt-B3 

P QKt3 

3P— K3 

B— Kt2 

4B— K2 

B— K2 

5P— QKt3 

B— B3 

6P— B3 

KK<^E3 

7 0-0 

P Q3 

8P Q4 

P— Kt3 

9Q— B2 

Kt-Q2 

10 P— K4 

B— Kt2 

11 B— Q3 

KKt— Kt sq. 

12 P— K6 (a) 

Kt— K2 

13 K1^R3 

P QB3 

14 PxP 

PxP 

15 K1^B4 

Kt— KB3 

16B B3 

Kt— B sq. 

17 QB— K sq. 

0 0 

18Kt-Kt5 

P— Kt4 

19 Ktr-KS (6) 

Kt— K2 

20Kt(K5) B3 

R— Bsq. 

21P— B4(c) 

P— R3 

22KtxKP(d) 

PxKt 

23RxP 
24BxQP 
25BxKt 
26BxQ 
27B— K7 

28 BxB 

29 P— Q5 
30R— K7 

31 KB— K sq. 

32 KB— K4 
33R— K8 
34 KB— K7 
35BxRch. 

36 B— QB7 

37 P— QB4 

38 PxP 
39R— B6 
40BxQBP 
41 K— R sq. 
42BxP 
43P— E3 
44K— R2 
45P— Kt3 
46K— Kt2 
47KtxP 

Kt(B3)-Q4(e) 
Kt— K6 
KtxQ 
Kt^KtS 
KtxB 
RxB 
KtxP 
B— B sq. 
B— B6 
P— Kt4 
B— B4 
B— QKt5 
KxR 
B— Kt8 
PxRP 
B— B7 
BxP 
B— B4 ch. 
B— QB7 
Kt— Q6 
K<^B7 ch. 
Kt-K5 
K— K2 
Kt— B3 
B-Q6 

DELMAit S GAMES. 

48 K-R2 (/) 

B— K6 

60 R— KKt sq. 

K— B3 

49 P— Q6 ch. 

K Q2 
BxKt 

61P— KtSch. 

K— B4 

50RxKt 

62R— Kt2 

B-K6(g) 

51 R— B7 oh. 

KxP 

63P— Kt6 

B-Q4 
B— Kt4ch. 

62P— R4 

BxP 

64R— K2 

53R— B6 

B Q7 
K— K3 

66K-R3 

B— R3 

64B^B3 

66 R^QB2 

K-Kt4 

56P— Kt4 

K— K4 

67R— B5 

KxP 

56P— R5 

B— B6 ch. 

68RxBch. 

KxP 

67 K-R3 

B— K3 

And after a few more moves 

58K— B4 

B Q7 

game was given tip as drawn. 

59 R— B sq. 

B— QB5 

379 

(a) White has gradually obtained the better game, bat it would have been wiser 
play to reserve the advance of either of the centre Pawns at this early stage. 

(6) Ingenious. White will obtain a powerful attack by B x R, followed by BP x P, 
if the offer of the sacrifice be accepted. 

(c) He could not venture on B x QKtP on account of the rejoinder Q — B4. 

(d) He gets three Pawns for the piece, which are, however, separated on two 
wings, and, therefore, the efficiency of the sacrifice is doubtful. 

(«) The other Knight would have better served the same purpose, and if White 
replied R x QP, Black would have gained time by Q — R4. 

(/) 48 P— Kt 4 was better, for if 48 . . . B x P; 49 R x Kt, 49 B x P ch. 1 ; 60 R— B8, 
50 B— K6; SI P— R4, and should win. 

(g) Black has played the ending masterly but overlooks here an easy draw by 
62. . .B— K8 ch.; 68 K— R8, 68 B— KB8, etc. 

SHOWALTEE'S GAMES. 

Game No. 810. 

Played in the first round, April Ist. 
FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME. 

W/iite 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KK^-B3 
3K<^B3 

QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 

4B B4 

B— B4 

oP— Q3 
6 0-0 

P-Q3 
B KKt5 

7 P— KE3 (a) 
8B K3 
9BxKt 

B R4 
Kt— Q6 
BxB 

10 Q— K2 

11 Kl^Q sq. 

12 P-B3 

13 Kt— K3 

0-0 
K— R sq. 
B— QKt 3 
P— B3 

14P— KKt4 

B Kt3 

15 B— Kt 3 
16K— Kt2 

17 QE^K sq. (6) 

18 Ki^BS 
19KPxB(c) 
20K1^R2 
21PxKtP 

22 P— Q4 

23 Q— K3 
24PxKt 
25KxB(/) 
26Q— Kt'5 
27 K— Kt sq. 
28RxP 

29 Q— Q8 ch. 

30 Q— B7 ch. 

31 Besigna 

Q-Q2 
QR— Ksq. 
P— Q4 
BxKt 
P— K5 
P— KKt 3 
BPxP 
B— B2 
Kt— R4(rf) 
BxKt(e) 
R— B6 
QxPch. 
PxP 
RxR 
K— Kt2 
R— B2 

(a) Kt — Ka is quite safe and in many ways preferable. 

(6) Quite misjudging the necessities of the position which now rerjuired hia with- 
drawing his KKt, probably best to K sq., followed by P — KB3. 

(c) His position rapidly grows to the bad. If 17 KtP x P, 17 Kt— lU; 18 K— Ba, 
18 Kt— B5; 19 Q— Q sq., 19 P— Kt8, with a fine attack. 

(({)A first-class move which, by proper continuation, should have carried the 
hostile position by force in the shortest time. 

(e) But more decisive was here 24. . .B— B5; 2.1 Q— K2, 2.5 Qx P; 26 P— B3, 26 
PxP; 27 Q— B2, 37 RxR; 28 B— Kt6, etc.. while the text move left it open 
for White to make a long fight of it by Q — Kt H without retaking the piece. 

(/) Of course this is fatal and allows the enemy to storm the field with united 
heavy forces. 

8H0WALTEB S GAMES. 

381 

name No. 811. 

Played in the second round, April 26tli. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3B— Kt5 

AB—BA 

5B— Kt3 

6 0—0 

7P— Q4 

8 P— QB3 

9P— QIW 
lOQ— Q3 
llBxRP 
12 P— Q5 
13Kt^£t5(6) 
14Kt— KE3 
15 P— KB4 
16QxB 
17BxP 
ISRxKt 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QE3 
P— QKt4 
B— Kt 2 (a) 

B— k:2 

P— Q3 
B— B3 
KK^-K2 
PxRP 
0-0 

QK<^Kt sq. 
Kt— Kt3 
B— Bsq. 
BxKt 
PxP 
KtxB 
P— QB3(c) 

19R-B2 
20Br— K2 
21 K— R sq. 
22Q— Q3 
23Kt— Q2 
24PxP 
25 Kt— B3 
26Kt— Q4 
27QxB 
28B— B6 
29Q— E7 
30RxRP 
31RxKt(c) 

32 R— K sq. 

33 R— Q sq. 
34Q— QRsq 
35P— QB4 

36 R— KKt sq 

37 Q— KB sq. 
38Q— B3(t) 
39P— KR3 

i3) 

B— R5(rf) 
B— B3 
Q— B sq. 
B— K4 
PxP 
P— B3 
P^Kt3 
BxKt 
Kt— 02 
R— QKt sq. 
Kt— K4 
KtxB 
Q— KB4 
QR-Ksq.(/) 
R— B2 
Q— K4 
R(B2)— K2 
Q— KB6 ill) 
Q-R6 
R— K8 
R(Ksq.)— K6 

(a) One of Louis Paulsen's eariy experiments. The Bishop is hardly well placed 
on this diagonal. 

(6) White ought to have at once directed his attack again.st the Q side where he 
had obtained the superior position, commencing with P — B4. 

(c) A good move in order to get rid of his weak QBP which he is sure to recover 
by Q— Kt 8 ch. if White capture it 

(<f) Waste of time, as White was not likely to shut out his Queen by P — KKt 8. 

(«) White's latter play quite satisfied the position, and after dirt^cting his attack 
against the Q side ne has obtained much the superiority. However, 81 P x 
Kt would have given him quite an advantage, for if 81. . .Q — B4; 82 B — K7, 
82 Q— Kt 8 ch. or — KR4; 38 Q— Kt sq., threatening QR— R7, and should win. 
Whereas, after the text move his game becomes rather difficult to defend. 

(/) Much stronger than Q x P or R x P, for in either caee White would reply 
B— B7. 

(S) Q — KKt sq., followed by R — R6, in order to retreat R — R sq. eventually, was 
now the best course. 

(A) Remarkably beautiful and powerful. He threatens Q — B7, or in case White 
play P — Kk8, to enter at KKt 6, followed by R — K8, and there seems to be no 
escape for White. 

(f) After 88 P— KKt 8, 38Q— K.-ich.; 89Q— Kt2 (or 39 R— Kt 2, 89 Q— Q5;), 
89. . .Q — Q6; his game was also lost 

882 

SHOWALTEB S OAHEB. 

40Q— Kt4 
41RxE 

42 K— B2 

43 K— Kt 3 

Q— B7 
R X R ch. 
Q— KtSch. 
B— K6ch. 

44K— B4 
45P— Kt3 
46 Besigns. 

Q— K8ch. 
B— K5 

Game No. 812. 

Played iu the first round, April 9th. 

FOUR KNIGHTS' GAME. 

White 
J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 

2KKt— B3 

3Kt— B3 

4B— Kt6 

5KtxP 

6P— Q4 

7P— B4 

8P— K5 

9P— KB3 
lOPxKt 
110—0 

12 B— K gq. cL 

13 P— Q5 (c) 

14 K— B2 
15B— K2 

16 K— Kt sq. 
17PxP 
18B— Q3 
19BxKt 
20B^K5 
21 K<^K2 
22Kt— Q4 

Black 
J. W. Showalter. 

P— K4 
QKi^B3 
Kt— B3 
B— B4 
KtxKt 
B— Q3 

QKt— Kt5(a) 
B— K2 
Kt— B3 
BxP 
K<^B4(6) 
K— B sq. 
B— Q5ck 
B— B7 
B— Kt 6 ch. 
P— QB3 
KtPxP 
P-Q4 
BxB 
B— K3(c?) 
B— R5 
B— Q2 

w 

23 K<^B3 
2411— K2 

25 P— B3 

26 Kt— K5 
27B— K3 
28B— Q4 

29 K— B sq. 

30 B— K3 

31 Q— Q2 

32 Ktr-Q3 

33 Br— Q sq. 

34 Kt— B2 

35 Kt— Q3 
36PxP 

37 Kt— K sq, 

38 B— Kt sq, 

39 K^-B3 
40B— K3 

41 K<^K5 

42 KB— K sq. 
43PxB 
44QxQ 

46 B— QKt sq 
46 Besigns. 

(/) 

B— B3 
P— Kt3 
Q-B2 
B— B4 
P— KE4 
Q— Q3 
P— B4 
K— Kt2 
B— K5 
QB— (}B sq. 
KB— Qsq. 
B— B4 
P— Q5 
PxP 
Q— B3 
BxP((/) 
P— Q6 
B— B4 
Q-B7 
BxKt 
B— Kt5 
ExQ 
P— Q7 

{0)7.. .Kt— Kt 8, and if 8 P— B6, 8 Kt— Kt sq. 
defence. 

9 Px Kt, 9 BPx Kt, is a better 

(b) White could hare obtained a stronger position byll P — KKt4, not minding 
11 . . .B— R5 ch. ; 13 K— B sq. 

(c) Kt — K8 was now more correct. 

(d) B — Q2 would have saved time two moves later. 

(e) Feeble. P — QKt 4, threatening Q — B4, would have given him a strong attack. 
(/) 37 Kt— K6, 87.P— Q6; 38 KB— K 8^., was a more promising defence. 

(g) White's game becomes broken up after this. 

SHOWALTEB 8 GAMES. 

383 

Game No. 818. 
Plajed in the second round, May 8tL 

CENTRE COUNTER GAMBIT. 

White 
J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 

2PxP 

3P— Q-t 

4P— QB4 

5 KKt— B3 

6Kt— BS 

7B— Q3 

8 0—0 

9B— K3 
lOQ— K2 
11 B— QKt sq. 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

P-Q4 

KK1H-B3 

KtxP 

KKt— B3 

P— K3 

B— K2 

0—0 

K— K sq. (a) 

QKt— B3 

Kt^QKt5(6) 

P-QB3 

12 P— QR3 
13B— B2 

14 Kt— K5 

15 B— KB4 

16 QBr— Q sq. 
17B— Q3 
18R— E3 
19B— R6 

20 Q— B3 (e) 

21BxR 

22BxKtP(/) 

23BxBP 

24IU-Kt3ch. 

25B— B5 

Kt— E3 
Q— B2 
B-Q3 
Q-Q8q.(c) 
Q— K sq. 
B— K2. 
P— KKt3 
Er-KKt sq. 
B— KBsq. 
QxB 
K— Kt2 
Q-Qsq. 
K— R sq. 
Besigns. 

(a) In this opening Black gets a cramped game on the Q side which he ought to 

have tried to relieve at once by P — QKt 1 or P — QB4. 
(6) He only assists the adversary's development on that wing by this sortie. 

(c) Black wastes time which he can ill afford to spare in this position. He ought 
to have played long ago B — Q2, and in some contingencies this Bishop could 
have retreated to K sq. with good defensive effect. 

(d) His game was bad, but there was no immediate necessity for this ruinous 
advance. 

(«) Prompt and vigorous. He threatens Kt — K4. 
(/) A fine settler. 

Game No. 814. 

Plajed in the first round, April 6tfa 

I. 

EVANS 

GAMBIT. 

Black 

5P— B3 

B— B4 

H. E. Bird. 

60 0 
7P Q4 

P Q3 
PxP 

P— K4 

8PxP 

B— Kt3 

QKt— B3 

9 Kt-B3 

B— Kt5 

B-B4 

10 Q— R4 

K— B sq. 

BxP 

11 B— KKt 5 (a) 

Q-B sq. 

White 

J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2 KK1^B3 
3B— B4 
4 P— QKt 4 

(a) New in this position, but not of much use, as it drives Black's Queen to a 
better post 

384 

BHOWALTEB 8 GAMES. 

12 P— Q6 
13PxB 

14 B— K2 

15 Q— Q sq. 

16 Kt— R4 
17KtxB 
18 Q— Kt 3 
19B— Q2 

20 KB— QB sq. 

21 Q— K3 

22 B— B sq. 
23Q— B3 
24P— QB4 
25P— R5 
26 B— K3 
27B— KB4 
28B— Kt3 
29PxP 

80 QB— Kt sq. 
31(^-Kt4 
32B— Kt6 

BxKt 
K<^K4 
Q— R6 
Kt— KB3 
P— KR4 
RPxKt(6) 
Kt— R2 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— B4 
Kt— B3 
Q-Q2 
R— K sq. (c) 
P— R5 
R-R4 
P— R6 
R— R5 (d) 
R^R3 
PxP 
Q-Q sq. 
Kt (B3)— Q2 
Q— B3 

33 Q— B3 

34 BxKt 
35RxQ 

36 K— B sq. 
37R— B7 
38R(Ktsq.)— B 

39 P— B4 

40 — B5 (/) 

41 R— Kt sq. 
42BxP 
43RxP(Kt7) 
44PxP 
45B— Kt3 
46P— B3 
47PxR 

48 K— Kt sq. 

49 K— R sq. 

50 R— Kt sq. 

51 K X R wins. 

R— QRsq. 
QxQ(e) 
KtxB 
K— K2 
K— Q sq. 

B— Ktsq. 
P— B3 
K— K2 
K— Q sq. 
R— Bsq. 
P— Kt3 
RxP 
R— Kt5 
RxB 
R— B7 
R— Kt7ch. 
RxP 
RxRch. 

(b) Black could have much strengthened his counter-attack by 17. . .KKt — Kt 5; 
18 QB— KB4 ! (if 18 P x Kt, 18 P x P; 19 QB— KB4, 19 Kt— Be ch., and wins, 
for if 19... K — Bsq.; aOQxPch., and mates next move, while, obviously, 
after SO. . .P x Kt; 21 PxP, threatening mate, Black must give up the Queen), 
18 . . . P— KKt 4; 19 B— Kt 8, 19 RP x Kt, etc. 

(c) The Book stood better on the open QR file, and he ought to have proceeded 
with P — RS at once. 

(<f)Lo8S of time which could have been much better used for the purpose of 

making his Q side safe by PxP. 
(«) The exchange of Queens deteriorates his g^me. There was no danger to be 

apprehended from the adverse Queen remaining on the board, and if White 

exchanged. Black evidently gained [time .by retaking with the Rook and 

attacking the KBP. 

(/) White's ending play is remarkably fine, and he has now arrived at a winning 
positicm. 

Oame Na 815. 

Played in the second rotind, May 6ih. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

TPTiite 

H. E. Bird. 

IP— KB4 
2P— K3 

Black 

J. W. Showalter. 

P— 04 
P-QB4 

3 QKt— B3 KKl^BS 

4 Kt-B3 P— K3 

5 K<^K2 Kt— B3 
6Kt— Kt3(o) B— Ka 

7 B— Q3 P— QR3 

showalter's games. 385 

8 0—0 P— QKt3 29Q— Kt3ch. B— Kt2 

9P— B3 B— Kt2 30Kt— K5 E^R3 

lOB— B2 QR— B8q.(ft) 31RxR BxR 

IIP— Q4 P— KR4 32R— KBsq. K— R2 

12P— B5 P— R5 33R— B7 Q— B sq. 

13Kt— Rsq. Kt— K5 34 Kt— B4 B— Q3 

14PxKP PxKP 35BxP K— R sq. 

15Kt— B2 KtxKt 36Kt— KtBch. RxKt 

16RxKt K— Q2 37 BxR Q— B3 

17P— K4 R— Bsq. 38RxP P— B5 

18B— K3 K— B2 39R— Kt8ch. B— QBsq.Cf) 

19PxBP PxBP 40RxBch. QxR 

20Q— K2 P— Q5 41Q— R4ch. K— Kt2 

21B— Q2 P— K4(c) 42BxP Q— Kt5 

22B— Q3 R— QRsq. 43Q— Kt5ch. K— B sq. 

23PxP KPxP 44QxPc1l B— B2 

24R— QBsq. K— Ktsq. 45 Q— R6 ch. K— Q2 

25R— B4 P— R4 46Q— Kt5ch. K— K2 

26 R— QBsq. Kt^Kt5 47 B— B5 ch. K— Q sq. 

27P— QR3 KtxB 48 Q— Q3 cL K— B sq. 

28QxKt B— R3(rf) 49 Q— R3 Resigns. 

(a) The manceuvres of this Knight so early in the game are original and worth 

trying, considering that this piece is generally difficult to place at a later stage 

of this opening after the common development. 
(6) 10. . .P— B5, and if 11 P— QKt8, 11 QKt— R4, would have been good play 

here, 
(c) K — Kt sq. was much better. 

((■/) Useless. R — "RH or P — R5 were evidently superior. 
(e) If the other Bishop interposed at Kt sq., then followed Q — Kt4, thi-eatening 

Q — R5 ch. White now finishes an excellently -conducted attack with great 

energy and precision. 

Game No. 810. 

Played in the first round, March 27th. 

EVANS GAMBIT. 

White Black 

J. W. Showalter. C. P. Burille. 

1 P— K4 P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 QKt^B3 

3 B— B4 B— B4 

(o) 8 P X P, 8 Kt X P; 9 R— K sq., gives White a more lively attack. Compare 
a game, played between the editor and Mr. Devid^ and published in the 
August number, 1890, of the ItOemationdl Cfiets Magazine, page 246. 

4 P— QKt 4 

BxP 

5P— B3 

B-R4 

60 0 

Kt— B3 

7P-Q4 

O-O 

8KtxP(o) 

KtxKP 

386 

showalteb's games. 

9Q— K5 

lOPxKt 
11 Kt— Q2 (d) 
12BxKt 

KtxKt(6) 
P— B3 (c) 
KtxKt(e) 
B-Kt3(/) 

13B— Kt5 

14 QiU-K sq. 

15 B— B6 ig) 
16Q— Kt5 

Q— K sq. 
B— Q sq. 
P— Q4 
Besigns. 

(6) The proper plan of defence was 9...P-(i4; and if lOKtxP, lORxKt; II 
Bx P, U Kt— Q3, and should win. 

(c) Simply 10...P— Q3; and if 11 PxP, 11 PxP, would have now inipiovwl 
his game. 

(d) Finely conceived. 

(e) If ll...HxP (or H...KtxQBP; 12 B— R.3, etc.); 12KtxKt. 12BxR; 13 
QB— KKtS, l.sg— K.sq.; 14 Kt— B6 ch., UPxKt; ISQBxP, and wins. 
But 11 . . . Kt— Q]U WJV.S now hi.s l>est defence. 

(/) This feeble move loses in a short time. 12. . . P— Q4; and if 13 P x P en pass., 
13 P X P, left him still with a Pawn ahead on the Q side and a defensible 
game on the other wing. 

(ff) White conducts the attack with irresistible power. 

Game Xo. 317. 

Played in the second round, April 20tli. 
VIENNA OPKNING. 

White 
C. F. Burille. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4 KKt— B3 
5B— B4 
6 0—0 
7P— Q4 
8KtxP 
9PxP 
lOR— B2 

Black 
J. W. Showalter. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
PxP 
P— KKt4 
P— Kt6 
PxKt 
P-Q4 

B— KKt 5 (a) 
B— E6 
Q— Kt4cli. 

11 K— R sq. 
12BxP 
13 P— B3 
14Q— R4(ft) 

15 K<^K3 

16 P— Q5 

17 PxKt 
18Q— Kt6 
19P— R4 
20P— R5 
21Ki^Kt4 
22 Besigns. (d) 

0-0-0 
Q— Kt2 
K1^B3 
R— KKt sq. 
KK1^I14 
KtxB(c) 
KB— QB4 
B— Kt3 
E^Q3 
R— KKtS 
BxKt 

(a) By a transposition of moves an old attack in the Mnzio Gambit has been 
formed, and the defence has been conducted in accordance with theoretical 
pi-e.scription. Black obviously threatens now P — B7 ch. 

(b) Kt X Kt, followed by Q — Q2, was his only continuation to avoid the irresist- 
ible counter-attack which Black now institutes. 

(c) Black courageously proceeds with his onslaught against the adverse King, 
having calculated to a nicety that his own King, though apparently danger- 
ously exposed, could not get into serious trouble before Black has completed 
victorious operations on the other wing. 

8H0WAI.TEB 8 GAMES. 

387 

(rf)For Black threatens BxPch., followed by R— Kt 8 ch. , and if22PxB, 22 
RxP; 28R(B2)— KBsq., 23R-Kt8ch.; 24RxR, 24QxRch.: 25RxR. 
2o R X R mate. 

Game No. 318. 

Played in the first round, March 29th. 
SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

White 
J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3P— Q4 
4KtxP 
5KtxKt 
6B— Q3 

7 P— K5 (a) 

8 0—0 

9 B— KB4 (ft) 

10 B— Q2 (c) 

11 R— K sq. 

Black 
G. H. D. Gossip. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
PxP 
Kt— B3 
KtPxKt 
P-Q4 
Kt— Kt5 
B— QB4 
P— KKt4 
KtxKP 
Q-K2 

12 Kt— B3 (d) 

13 Q— R5 
14BxP 
15B— R4 

16 B— R6 ch. 
17B— Kt3 

18 Q— Q sq. 

19 B— B sq. 

20 P— QKt 4 
21Q-Kt8q.(/) 
22Q— Kt3 

23 QR-Kt sq, 
24BxP 

B-Q2 
0-0-0 
P— B3 
Q— Kt2 
K— Kt sq. 
KR— Kt sq. 
Kt— Kt5(e) 
Kt-K4 
B— KKt5 
B— Q5 
P— KR4 
P— R5 (g) 
Kt— B6ch.(A) 

(a) Tlie advance is not favorable to his game on general principles, as it 
e.stablishes a strong majority of Pawns on the Q side for the opponent, and 
his own KP is practically lost. The proper play is 7 P x P, 7 P x P; 8 B— 
Kt5ch., 8B— Q2; 9BxBch., OQxB; 10 0—0, 10 B— K2; 11 Kt— Q2, as 
played by SeHor Golmayo (White) in a match against Captain Mackenzie at 
Havana. See " Modern Chess Instructor," Part I, p. 66. 

(6) Having Ca.stled on the K side, while the opponent had still the option of 
Ca.stling either side, it was unwise to place this Bishop in the way of being 
attacked by the adverse Pawns, and the right play was 9 Kt — Q2, whereupon, 
of course. Black could not capture the KP on account of the rejoinder R — 
K sq., followed by Kt — B3. If, however, 9 P — KR3, a iine variation might 
have arisen, which was first pointed out in the London Cfiess Monthly, and 
afterward occurred in a match game between Messrs. Delmar (White) and 

. LipschUtz, viz., 9. .KtxKP; 10 R— K sq., 10 Q— B4; 11 Q— K2, 11 O— O; 
12QxKt, 12QxPch.; 13K— Rsq., 18BxP; UPxB, 14Q— B6ch.; 15 
K— R2, 15 B— Q3, and wins. 

(c) Probably best, if 10 B— Kt 8, 10 P— KR4; 11 P— KR3, 11 P— R5; 12 B— R2, 
12 Kt— R3, with a strong attack. 

id) 12 Q — R5 at once would have failed on account of 12. . .P — KR3, and if 18 
Bx P, 13 Kt— B6 ch., and wins. 

(e) Black wastes time here. He could have at once proceeded with QB — KKt 5, 
followed by P— KR4, with the same attack as he institutes on the 20th move. 

(/) B — K2 was his best defence. 

(g) The initiation of a masterly combination eight moves deep. 

(Ji) See diagram. 

388 

SHOWALTER 8 GAMES. 

Position after Black's 24th move 

Kt— B6 ch. 

Black— G. H. D. Gossip. 

^V. S>:owaltor. 

25PxKt 
26 B— Kt 3 
27PxQ 

28 K— E2 

29 B— R3 

30 Resigns. 

BxPdisch. 
Q X B cL. 
RxPch. 
BxP 

E X B cb. (/) 

{i) One of the linest speinions of sacrificing play on record. Mr. (lOs^,ip deservefs 
the l1ij.5ho.sc pniise for the ingenuity and dcvpth ol combination which he 
displayed in this game. 

Game No. 319. 

Played iu the second round, April 23d. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

\ 

\ 

W/nte 

Black 

G. H. I). Govjip. J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3 B— Kt 5 

4 0—0 
5P-Q4 

6 R— K sq. 
7PxP 
8P— QR4 
9KtxKt 
lOB— Kt5 

11 Kt X BP 

12 Q— Q5 ck 

13 P— KKt 4 
14QxKtch. 
15 P— KI14 
lePxBch. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt— Q3 
KtxB 
KtxP 
Kt— Q3 
Kt— B4 (a) 
KxKt 
K— Kt3 
BxB , 
K— E3 
P-Q4(6) 
QxP 

ITQxQch. 

18 R— K5 ch. 

19 P— K5 
20P.XP 

21 R— QB5 

22 Kt— B3 

23 Kt— Q sq. 

24 Kt^K3 ch. 
2511— R3 
26B^K5 
27Kt-Kt2disch. 
28 E— KKt 3 
29PxR 

30 P— QKt 4 

31 Kt— K sq. ch. 
32P— Kt5 
33R^K7 

34 R^K3 ch. (c) 
36PxB 

KxQ 

KxP(c) 

B-Q2 

B— B3 

KR^Q sq. 

R^Q3 

QR-Q sq. 

K— B6 

K— K7 

R— Kt3ch. 

K— Q7 

RxR 

KxP 

R— Q8 ch. (rf) 

K— B6 

R^Q4 

R— Q2 

K-Kt5(/) 

PxP 

/ 

8H0WALTER 8 OAHE8. 

389 

36R-K5 

P— B4 

45K— Kt2 

K— Kt3 

37 Kt— B2 ch. 

KxP 

46K— R3 

R— QB2 

38RxPch. 

K— Kt3 

47 R-KR8 

P— R3 

39 R K5 

P-QR4 

48K— R4 

K— Kt2 

40Kt— K3 

P— B4 

49 R KEt8 

R— K2 

41 Kt-B4 cL. 

K— Kt4 

50P— Kt4 

K— B2 

42KtxP((/) 

KxKt 

51P— Kt5 

43RxPch. 

K— Kt5 

Drawn. 

44R-B8 

K— Kt4 

(a) 10. . .B X B is, of course, out of question on account of the rejoinder Kt — B6 
disch., and if 10. . .P— B8; 11 Q— Ro ch., 11 K— B sq. (or 11. . .P— KKt3; 12 
Ktx F, etc.); 12 Ktr-Kt6 ch., and should win. 

(6) Black has defended himself remarkably well against the opponent's highly 
ingenious on.slaught, and he is sure to remain with a Pawn ahead, with a 
good position, but he could have secured a still greater advantage b}' ad- 
vancing this Pawn only one step. 

(c) K — B3, followed by B x P, would have given him less trouble in the end. 

(ri!)In excellent style Black hiis made fine use of his King and fia.s arrived at an 
ending v/hich he ou:i:ht to have won without difficulty if he had only simpli- 
liel mattei-3 here by B x Kt, followed by R — Q2. 

{€) White proves great powers of ingenious resource in this game which seemed 
to be several times almost hopeless. 

(/) 34. . .K— Q7 or — Qo; 35 P x B, threatening P x R, was still worse for Black, 
and he selects the right course in giving up the piece at once. 

(g) It was no use playing for more than a draw with a Knight against three 
Pawns, and White properly simplifies matters for that purpose. 

Game No. 320. 

Played in the second round, May 9th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

G. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4P-Q3 
5 Kt— K2 (a) 

Black 

J. W. Showalter. 

P— K4 
KKi-B3 
P-Q4 
P-Q5 

B— Q3 (6) 

6PxP 

BxP 

7 KKt— B3 

Kt-B3 

8P— B3 

PxP 

9PxP 

B-Q3 

10K<H-Kt3(c) 

0-0 

11 B— K2 

P— KR3 

12 R— QKt sq. 

R— Esq. 

13 0—0 

P— QKt3 

(a)5PxP, SPxKt; 6PxKt, 6QxP; 7 PxP, 7KB-QKt5; 8 B— Q2, 8 BxP; 

9 R — Kt sq. , is preferable. 
(6) Not as good as 5 . . . Kt— B3, and if 6 P x P, 6 KKt— Kt 6, etc. 
(c) lOQ— B2, lOQ— K2; 11 B— Kto, with the view of forcing on the QP and 

forming a strong centre, was better. 

390 

8H0WAI.TEB S OAHES. 

14 Q B2 

Q— K2 

28B— Kt4 

BxR 

15 B— Q2 

B— Q2 

29 QxB 

Q-B7 

16 Q Kt3 

QR— Q sq. 

30 Q B4 

Q- R2 ch. 

17 QR— K sq. 

P KKt4 

31 K— Kt sq. 

Q— Kt2 

18KtxP(dj 

BxKt 

32B R5 

R— Q2 

19PxB 

PxKt 

33 R^K sq. 

P-QB4 

20BxP 

Q B4cli. 

34Br-K4 

R (Q2)— K2 

21 P Q4 

QxB 

35Q Q2 

K— B sq. 

22 P— K5 

B K3 

36 R Kt4 

Q— R2 

23Q— Kt5 
24 K— R2 

Q— K6 ch. 

37R^R4 

RxP 

Kt K5 

38Q B4 

QxB 

25 B B3 

QxBP 

39RxQ 

Kt— K7 ch., 

26RxKt 

KtxP 

and wins. 

27 Q— Kt sq. 

B— B4 

(d) A grave blunder whiolt costs at least one piece, and a8 liis error consisted in 
his overiooliing the foi-ce of BlackV 20th move, be loses another piece, after 
which Black has no trouble to win. 

Game No. .<521. 

Played in the first rouiid, April 12th. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFKNOE. 

White 

Black 

J. W. Showalter. J. M. Hanham. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt-B3 
3P— Q4 
4Kt— B3 
5B— K2 
6 0-0 
7B— K3 
8P— KR3 
9Kt— R2 

lOQ— Q2 

11 QR— Q sq. 

12B— B3 

13 KR— K sq. 

14 P— Q5 
15PxP 

16 BxKt 

17 B— K2 

18 K— R sq. 

19 B— B sq. 

P— K4 
P-Q3 
Kt— Q2 
P— QB3 
B— K2 
P— KR3 
KKt— B3 
P— KKt4 
Q— B2 
Kt— B sq. 
Kt— Kt3 
B— K3(a) 
Kt— B5 
PxP(6) 
B— Q2 
KtPxB 
KR^Kt sq. 
Q— Kt3 
R— QB sq. 

20P— QKt3 

21 B— Q3 

22 Kt— B3 

23 KKt— Kt sq. 

24 P— B3 
25P— QKt4 
26 P— QR4 
27P— R6 

28 KKt— K2 

29 KR^Kt sq. 

30 QR^KB sq. 

31 Q— K sq. 

32 Q— B2 

33 Kt^B sq. 

34 QKt— K2 

35 P— B4 

36 R— Q sq. 

37 Kt— B3 

38 B— B sq. 
39B— K2 
40PxQ 
41RxR 

K— B sq. 
R— Kt2 
Kt— Kt sq. 
P— B4 
Kt— B3 
K— B2 (c) 
P— R3 
Q— Q5 
Q-B7 

QR— KKt sq. 
Q— R5 
Q— R4 
Kt— R2 (cf) 
Kt— Kt4 
K1^R2 
Kt— B sq. 
Kt— Kt3 
Kt— R5 
KtxBP 
QxPch. (p) 
RxRch. 
RxRch. 

SHOWALTEB 8 GAIEES. 

391 

42QxR 
43KxKt 
U B— R5 ch, 
45Kt— Kt3 

46 K— B2 

47 K— K2 
48BxP 
49KxP 
50 Kt— K2 
51KtxP 
52P— Kt5 
53 Kt— K6 
54PxP 
55KtxB 
56 P— B5 
57K— Kt3(y) 

KtxQ 58PxP KxP 

P— K5 59 Kt— Q2 K— K4 

K— B3 60K— Kt4 K— B3 

K— K4 61 Kl^Kt sq. B— K3 ch. 

B— R6ch. 62K— Kt3 K— K4 

P— B6 ch. 63 Kt B3 K— Q5 

P X B ch. 64 Kt— K2 ch. K— K5 (h) 

P— B5(/) 65Kt— Ktsq. K— Q4 

BxP 66Kt^B3 P— Kt5 

B— B4 67K— B4(i) K— B4 

B— Kt4 68Kt— R2 K— Kt4 

B— Q6 69KtxP BxKt 

PxP 70K— K3 0) 
P X Kt And after a few more moyes the 

B — K5 ch. game was given up as drawn. 
BxP 

(a) The opponent's weak eighth move has given him opportunities for a strong 
attack which he ought to have pursued without delay by Kt — B5. Anyhow, 
B— Q3 was better if he intended to develop that piece first. 

(6> B — Q2 was again preferable. 

(c) We saw no reason for not taking the QKtP here and on the next two moves. 

{d) Instead of this useless move he might have more effectively tried to get his 
inactive KB round to QK2 via Q sq., QB2, and QKt sq. White could hardly 
prevent this plan, for he had always to guard against the sacrifice of the 
adverse Knight for the KUP. 

(e) The culmination of a deep laid and highly ingenious plan. 

(/) Letting a sure victory slip. B — K8 first would have driven back the Kt— B2 
in onler to protect the QKtP which, obviously, he could not afford to lose, 
and then the advance of P — Bo would have won the KRP. 

(g) K — Kt 4 was clearly better. 

(ft) Waste of precious time. K — B5 gave him excellent winning prospects. 

(t) Fine play. White now draws in an ingenious manner. 

(J) A well-known book position. White will reach QK sq., from which post he 
cannot be driven off by the adverse Bishop, and only a stalemate can be 
effected by the opponent. 

Game No. 822. 
STONEWALL OPENING. 

Played in the second round, May 13tb. 

White 
J. M. Hanham. 

1P-Q4 
2 P— KB4 

Black 
J. W. Showalter. 

P-Q4 
KKt— B3 

3P— K3 

B B4 

4 KKt— B3 

P— K3 

5P— B3 

P— B3 

6 QKt— Q2 

B Q3 

7B— K2 

QKt Q2 

392 showalteb's games. 

8KtH-K5 O— 0(a) 23 P— B6 Q— KB2 

9 0—0 P— B4(6) 24Q— K2 PxP 

lOP— KKt4 B— K5 25 PxP Kt-Q3 

IIP— Kt6 Kt— Ksq. 26 B— K3 B— B2 

12KtxB PxKt{o) 27B— E6 B— Kt3 

13KtxKt PxP(rf) 28QB— Qsq. Kt-K sq. 

UKtxR P— Q6 29Q— QKt5 RxR 

15BxP PxB 30 RxR B— B2 

16 Kt X KP P X Kt 31 R— Kt sq. ch. K— R sq. 

17 Q X P Q— K2 32 B— Kt 7 cL. (e) Kt x B 
18P— K4 P— K4 33PxKtck K— Kt sq. 
19P— B5 B— B4ch, 34 Q— Q5 QxQ 

20 K— R sq. R— Q sq. 35 P x Q 

21 Q — B3 B — Kt 3 And after a few more moves 

22 P— QR4 P— QR4 Black resigned. 

(a) Kt — K5 was the correct play in order to keep (wssession of the hole in the 
centre, and also to prepare driving off the hostile Knight by P — KB3. 

(6) Black thus qualifies his fifth move as lost* of time, and in trying to rectify the 
omission on the Q wing, i>:.' loses sight oi the danger to which his K side is 
exposed. Again Kt — K5 \vK.i the proper p'ay. 

(c) Of course, a blunder which costs tiie excliauge, biit his game was already bad 
even after 12. . .B x Kt; 13 QP x B, 13 P x Kt; i 1 Q- B2, 14 P— B4; ir, B— B4, 
16 Kt— B2; 16 Q— Kt3, etc. 

(d) If 18. . .Q X Kt; 14 P x P, wins a cii-.-.i- place. 

(«) 82 Q— Q5, 82 Q X Q; 88 P x Q, S8 Kt x P (or 83. . Kt— QS; 34 P— B7, 34 Kt x 
P;85B— Kt7ch., 85 K— Kt sq.; 30 BxP ch., and wins); 34 B— Kt 7 ch., etc., 
would have won more quickly. 

Game No. 823. 

Played in the first round, April 8th. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP PAWN GAMK. 

White Black 12BxKt(6) PxB 

N. MacLeod. J. W. Showalter. j| Kt^RS 0^K4 

IP— K4 P— K4 15QxP QxKt(c) 

2P— QB3 P— Q4 16QxR B-Q3 

3KKt— B3 QK<H-B3 17P— B4(d) PxP en pass. 

4B— Kt5 PxP 18P— KKt3(e) B— B4 ch. 

5KtxP Q— Q4 19K— Rsq. B— R6(/) 

6Q— R4 KKt— K2 20QxBP Q— K4 

7KtxKt KtxKt 21P— Q4 QxQP 

8P— QB4 Q— K3 22 R— Q sq. B— KKtS 

9 0-0 B— B4 23RxQ BxQch. 

lOKt— B3 0—0 24K— Ktsq. BxRch., and 

llKi^Q5 Q— Kt3(a) wins. 

SHOWALTEB S GAMES. 

393 

(a) As usual in this opening White is hampei«d in his development, and his 
position in this instance has become still more inferior, o-wing to his weak 
eighth more. Black now assumes the attack with wonted vigor. 

(6) If 12 KtxP, 12 B— R6; 13 P— KKtS, 18 Kt— Q5; 14 Q— Q sq., 14 Kt— B6 ch.; 
15 K — B sq., 15 Q — R4, threat«ning B — Kt7 ch., and wins. 

(c) Well played. The position was worth the sacrifice of the exchange. 

(d) If 17 P— KKt 8, 17 Q— B« followed by B— R6, and wins. Or if 17 P— KR8. 
17 B X P; 18 Q X KP, 18 QB— KB4, and wins. 

(e) Again best, for if 18 Q x BP, 18 QB— KKt 5; 19 Q— K3, 19 Q x P ch. ; 20 K— 
Ba, 20 Q— R5 ch.; 21 P— Kt 3 (or 21 K— Kt sq., 21 B— R7 ch.; 22 K— R sq., 
22 B — Kt 6 disch., and mates next move), 21 . . .Q — R7 ch., and wins. 

(/)19...Q&-KKt5; 20 Q— K4, 20Q— R6; 21RxP, 21BxRch.; 22QxB, 22 
* R — K sq., would have settled the game much more speedily. 

Game No. 324. 

Played in the second round, May 7th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 

J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2 P— KB4 
3KKt-B3 
4B— B4 
5P— Q4 
6 0—0 
7PxP 
8Kt— B3 
9Q— K2 

10 Kt-K4 

11 P— B3 
12B— Q3 

Black 

N. MacLeod. 

P— K4 
P-Q3 
QKt— B3 
PxP 
Kt— B3 
P-Q4 
KKtxP 
B— K3 
B— K2 • 
0-0 

P— KR3 (o) 
B— KKt5 

13 Kt— B2 
14QxB 
16 K^-»3 
16 Q— K4 
17KtxB 

18 R— K sq. 

19 Q— B3 
20PxKt 
21BxKt 
22RxP 

23 R— KB sq. 

24 Q— B6 
26 K— R sq. 
26P— K6(d) 

BxKt 
B— Kt4 
Kt— K6 
P— KKtS 
PxKt 
R— Ksq. 
Kt— K4 (b) 
QxB 
PxB 

Q— Kt4(c) 
R— K2 
QR— K aq. 
Q— R3 
Resigns. 

(a) Black has ably defended himself in an original manner. Here, however, he 
loses precious time. 11...R— Ksq. instead conveyed a rather unpleasant 
threat against the adverse Knight and Queen on the same file within two 
moves. 

(6) An error that causes him great trouble. Q — Q2 was the proper play. 

(c) The losing move which his opponent perceives with a keen eye. Q — R3, in 
order that he might reach Q— K8 speedily, was his best plan. 

(d) Finely played and unanswerable in view of the terrible second check, threat- 
ened by R— KR3. after 26 . . . R x P; 27 Q x P ch. 

394 

SHOVALTEB'S OAKE8. 

Game No. 825. 

Played in the first round, April 15th. 

HUNGARIAN DEFENCE. 

J. W. Showalter. I). M. Martinez. 

White Black 36 R— QB7 R— QKtsq. 

37RxP RxP 

38 P— K5 K— Kt sq. 

P— K4 39R— KKt4ch. K— B sq. 

QKt— B3 40 li— KR4 Kt^Kt 2 

B— K2 41 R^R8 ch. K— K2 

P— Q3 42 R— R7 K— B sq. 

Kt— B3 43 R— R8 ch. K— K2 

0—0 («) 44 R— R7 K— B sq. 

B— Kt5 45P— K6(e) KtxBP 

P— QR3 46 R— B7 ch. K— K sq. 

Kt^Ksq. 47 RxP Kt— Q3 

B— Q2 48 R— B4 P— R4 

K— R sq. 49 R— Q4 K— K2 

B— B3 50 R— Q5 R— Kt 4 

Q— K2 51B^Q3 KxP 

P— KKt 3 52 R— K3 ch. K— B4 

Q— Q sq. 53 R— Kt 3 R— Kt 6 

B— Kt2 54R— B3ch. K— K4 

P— B3 55 R— K3 ch. K— B5 

P— KKt4 56P— QB4 R— KtSch. 

P— KR4 57 K— Kt 2 Kt x P 

P— R5 58 R— B3 ch. K— K5 

PxB 59 R— KKt 3 Kt— K4 

Kt— K2 60 P— R4 P— R5 

BxKt 61P— R6 R— Kt3 

B— R3 62 R— Kt 7 R— QR3 

Ki^Kt2 63K— Kt3 R^KB3 

Q— K sq. (c) 64 K— Kt 2 R^QR3 

PxP 65R— Kt8 K— B5 

R-Q sq. 66 K— B sq. Kt^QB5 

RxR 67R-Kt6 R— R4 

B— Kt4 68P— R6 KtxP 

BxKt 69P— R7 R— KR4 

Q— R4 70 R— R6 

Kt X Q And after a few more moves the 

P — Kt 4 game was given up as drawn. 
PxB 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 

4 0-0 

5 P— QB3 
6P-Q4 
7Q— B2 

8 QKt— Q2 

9 P— QR3 

10 P— KR3 

11 Q— Q3 

12 P— KKt 4 

13 R— Q sq. 
14Kt— KBsq. 

15 Kt-K3 

16 KtH-Q5 

17 QB— KKt 5 

18 B— R4 

19 B— KKt 3 

20 K1^K3 
21BxP(/>) 

22 KtxP 

23 QKt— B5 
24KtPxB 

25 Q— B3 

26 PxP 
27PxQP 

28 RxP 

29 QR— Q sq. 

30 RxR 

31 Q— KKt4 
32QxB ch. 
33QxQch. 
34R^Q7 
35RxKt(ci!) 

(a)6...KtxP; 7B— Q5, 7 Kt— B3; 8 BxKt ch., 8 PxB; 9 Px P, 9 Kt-Q8; 10 
P X P (or 10 B— B4, 10 P— Q4;), 10 . . . P x P, was more likely to lead to some 
superiority of his position. 

(6) The sacrifice is well warranted by the position, and he calculates deeply that 
he must obtain suflScient material for it. 

SHOWALTEB'S OA1CE8. 

395 

(c) If 26...BPxP; 27 P— B6, recovering the piece, but Q— B sq. was much 

better, 
(rf) B X P first would have cleared the road to victor}-, 
(e) White might have been well satisfied with a draw here, in view of the danger" 

ous adverse Pawn which Black would soon make a passed one. 

Game No. 

Played in the second round, May 15tb. 

TWO KNIGHT'S DEFENCE. 

While 

Slack 

D. M. Martinez. J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4 P-Q3 (a) 
5K1H-B3 
6P— KR3 
7Kt— K2 
8 B— QKt 5 
9P— B3 

10 P— KKt 4 

11 Q-E4 {b) 
12PxP 

13 Kt— Kt 3 
14BxKt 
15 Q— B2 
16KtxKt 

P— K4 
XJKiH-B3 
Kt-B3 
B— B4 
P— Q3 
P— KE3 
B-K3 
0—0 
B— Kt3 
P— Q4 
PxP 
B— Q2 
P— R3 
BxB 

KtxKP(c) 
P— B4 

17 PxP 

18 QKt-Kt'5(d) 
19KtxB 
20BxP(e) 

21 Q— Kt 3 ch. 

22 0—0—0 

23 K— Kt Bq. 

24 Q— Q5 

25 K— R sq. 

26 Q— B3 

27 Q— Q5 
28Q— B3 
29 Q— Q5 
30P— KR4 

31 Q— Q3 oh. 

32 Q— B4 
33Q— Q5 

RxP 
BxKt 
RxKt 
Q-R6 
K— R2 
QxBch. 
RxKBP 
Q— Kt3ch. 
R^K7 
R— KB7 
R— K7 
R— KB7 
OR— KB sq. 
Q— Kt7 
P— K5 
RxP 
P— K6 

Lost by forfeit. (/) 

(a) Kt — Kt S is the recognized better move. 

(6) 11 Q— B3 was the right play, but 11 B x Kt, 11 P x B; 18 Kt x P, 12 P x P; 18 
Ktx QBP, 13 Q — K sq., would have subjected him to a strong attack. 

(c) A bold sacrifice. 

(d) Evidently overlooking that after Black's next move he could not capture the 
Book on account of the impending mate by Q — Q8. 

(e) As Black was not likely to take the Bishop, it makes matters still worse, 
(y) His game was evidently lost anyhow. 

396 

SHOWALTEB S GAMES. 

Qame No. 827. 

Played in the first ronnd, April 13th. 

KING'S BISHOP GAME. 

W/ilfe 

Black 

W. H. K. Pollock. J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2B— B4 
3 KKi^B3 
4P— Q4(/>; 

5 0—0 

6 B— QKt 5 
7KtxP 
8BxKt 

9 P— KB3 

10 iU-K sq 

11 Q— K2 
12Kt— Kt3 

13 P— KB4 

14 P— B5 

15 Kt— Q4 

16 P— QKt 3 
ITKPxP 
18B— Kt2 

19 K— R sq. 

20 Kt— Q2 

21 Er-KB sq. 
22KtxB 
23QxQ 
24R— R4 

25 P— R3 

26 Kt— B6 
27PxR 
28P— Kt4 
29 P— Kt 5 
30BxP 
31KtxKt 

32 B— B6 

33 R— QKt sq 

34 R— R sq. 

35 P— B3 
36RxP 

ch. 

P— K4 
KK<^B3 
Kt— B3 (a) 
KtxKP 
P-Q4 
PxP 
B— Q2 
PxB 
Kt— B3 (c) 
B— K2 
P— B4 
B— K3 
P— B5 
BxP 
B— K5 
PxP 
0—0 
B— QB4 
Q-Q2 
KR^K sq. 
Q— Kt 5 (d) 
RxKt 
KtxQ 
QR— K sq. 
Kt— B3 
RxR 
R— K3 
Kt— K sq. 
R— K6 {e) 
Kt-Q3{/) 
BxKt 
RxP 
R— QKt5 
P— KR3 
R— Kt7 
R— R7 ch. 

37 K— Kt sq. 
38Br-R5 
39 RxP 
40K— B2 

41R— KB5C(/) 

42 K— B3 

43 K— B2 
44K— B3 

45 K— B2 

46 R— Q5 

47 R— KB5 

48 BxP 
49RxBch. 
60R— QB6 
51 K— K3 
52R^B6 

53 R— KB6 

54 K— K4 

55 P— B4 
56R— B4 
57R— K5 

58 R^KB5 

59 K— K3 
60RxP 

61 R— B sq. 

62 Br-Kt sq. ch. 

63 R— R sq. ch. 

64 R— Kt sq. ch. 

65 R— QB sq. 

66 R^Kt sq. ch. 

67 R— QB sq. 

68 R— Kt sq. ch. 
69R^Kt2 

70 R— Q2 

71 K— Q4 

72 K— B3 (/O 
73R— Q8 
74 K— B2 

RxP 
PxP 

R— Kt 6 ch. 
B— B5 
R— Kt5 
R— Kt8 

Rr-Kt5 

R— Kt6ch. 
K— B sq. 
K— Kt sq. 
R— Q6 
BxB 
K— B sq. 
R-Q2 
K— K2 
K— Q sq. 
K— B sq. 
K— Kt2 
P— B3 
K— Kt3 
P-QB4 
R— Q5 ch. 
RxP 
R— Q5 
R— Qsq. 
K— R4 
K— Kt5 
K— R6 
K— Kt5 
K— R5 
K— Kt4 
K— B3 
P-B5 
R— KR sq. 
R-R5ch. 
K— B4 
R— R6 ch. 
R— KKt6 
Drawn. 

{a)3. . .KtxP isthe proper play, as the answer 4 QKt — B3 has been proved 

unsound beyond doubt. 
(6) An ordinary position of the Two Knights' Defence is here formed, in which 

Kt — Kt 5 is recognized as the .strongest continuation. 

showalter's games. 397 

(c) Kt— B4, in order to play Kt— K8 sooner or later, was superior. 

id) He has tenaciously kept the two Pawns which the adversary had sacrificed 

for the attack, and it was to his advantage to exchange, hut still better was 

clearly to capture the QBP. 
(e) Losing sight of the adverse ingenious reply 29. . .Kt— Q3, and if 30 Kt x P, 30 

R — KKt 3, kept his superiority of position and material. 
(X) If Ktx B, White has perpetual check with his Knight. 
(^) A very curious and most cleverly conceived position has been brought about by 

White, who threatens B x P, and then to recover at least the piece, no 

matter how Black might retake, 
(/i ) White's defence was a masterpiece of end play. He has now reached with his 

King his goal in front of the adverse passed Pawn, and the draw is theoret- 
ically forced and etusy. 

Game No. 328. 
Played in the second round, May 14th. 

RUY 

LOPKZ. 

Wliite 

Black 

16 Kt^Q2 

KtxKt 

J. W. Showalter. 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

16QxKt 
17 Q— K2 

0-0 
QB— K sq. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

18 B— K sq. 

P— KB4 (d) 

2 KKt-B3 

QK<^B3 

19R— Kt3 

Q-B6 

3B Kt5 

P QR3 

20R— B3 

Q Kt5 

4B R4 

Kt— B3 

21 P— KR3 

Q-R4 

5 0—0 

KtxP 

22 P— K6 

B^K2 

6P— Q4 

P— QKt4 

23 Q— K5 

BxKt 

7B Kt3 

P Q^ 

24PxB 

P— B3 

8PxP 

Kt— K2 

25P— Kt4 

Q Kt3 

9 B— K sq. (a) 

B— Kt2(6) 

26 B P2 

B— B sq. 

lOB— K3 

KK<^ B4 

27RxP 

RXR 

11 P— B3 

KtxB 

28BxR 

Q R3 
Q B3 

12RxKt 

B— B4(c) 

29Q— Q6 

13 Kt Q4 

Q-Kt4 

30 Q— Q8 ch. (e) 

Resigns. 

14 Q— K2 

B Kt3 

(a) Threatening R x Kt, followed by B x P ch. 

(b) Kt— QB4 was better. 

(c) P — QB4 was the right play. 

(d) It is difficult to see how he could expect any good from this, while it was very 
obvious that White's strong centre Pawn must become dangerous. P— 
QB4, with the view of soon following it up by B— B2, was clearly superior. 

(e) The termination has been vigorously conducted by White who now wins the 
interposing Queen by the reply B x P ch. 

398 

8H0WALTEB 8 GAMES. 

Game No. 339. 

Played in the first round, March 30tb. 
ttUY LOPEZ. 

WhH^ 

Black 

J. Taubenhaus. J. W. Showalter. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4 0—0 
5P— Q4 
6Q— K2 
7BxKt 
8PxP 
9 Kt— Q4 

10 QKt— B3 

11 E— K aq. 

12 Kt— B5 
ISKtxBch. 

14 PxP . 

15 Kt— K4 
16K^-Kt3 
17 P— QB3 
18B— K3 

19 KBr— Q aq. 
20Q— B2 
21 R— Q2 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt— Q3 
KtPxB 
Kt— Kt2 
0—0 
Kt— B4 
Kt— K3 
P— B3 
QxKt 
QxP 
Q— Kt3 
P— Q4(a) 
K^-B4 
Kt— Q6 
B— 113 
P— B4 
P— B5 

22P— Kt4 
23B— Q4(fc) 

24 Kt— B aq. 

25 Kt— K3 

26 K— R aq. 

27 P— B3 

28 R— KB aq. 

29 Q— R4 (c) 

30 KtxP 

31 Q— B6 

32 P— B4 

33 K— Kt aq. 
34KtxKt 

35 Q— K6 ch. 

36 P— KR3 

37 K— R2 
38QxRch. 

39 R (B aq.)- B2 

40 R— KKt 2 

41 K— Kt sq. 
42RxB 

43 K— R2 

44 Reaigna. 

P— R4 
P— R5 
B— B aq. 
'B— K3 
R— B2 
Q-R4 
P— R6 
PxPch. 
QR— KB aq. 
B— Kt5 
B— B6 
KtxBP 
RxKt 
K— R2 
Q— Kt4cli. 
R— K5 (d) 
PxQ 
P— K6 
Q— B5 ch. 
BxR 
Q— B8 ch. 
R^B7 

(a) Black has obtained much the best of the game with the majority of Pawns 

on the Q side and the open KB file. 
(6) The better way was now to stop the next adverse advance by P — KR4. 

(c) Undoubtedly his only defence was P — Kt 4. His game becomes disorganized 
after this. 

(d) Black's attack has been straight to the point, and his victory is assured by 
this paralyzing stroke. 

Game No. S80. 

Played in the aecond round, April 24th. 

MTJZIO GAMBIT. 

White 

Bhck 

J. W. Showalter. 

J. Taubenhaus. 

IP— K4 
2P— KB4 

P— K4 
PxP 

3 KKt— B3 

P-KKt4 

4B B4 

P— Kt5 

5 0-0 

PxKt 

6QxP 

- Q— B3 

7P— K5 

QxP 

BHOWALTEB B OAMES. 

399 

8BxPch.(a) 

KxB 

18Q— QKt5 

B— K2 

9P— Q4 

Q KB4(6) 

19QxP 

Q— K5 

lOP— KKt4 

Q— Kt3 

20 QR-K sq. 
21R-B2 

QxPch. 

11 K<^B3 

KKt-B3 

B — Q2 

12BxP 

P Q3 

22QxP 
23K— Kt2 

B-QB4 

13B— Kt3 

K— Kt2 

Q— Q4 oh. 

14 Ki^Q5 

KtxKt 

24R-B3 

KU— KB sq. 

15QxKt 

Kt— B3 

25 B B4 

QE^Baq. 

16Q B4 

P-Q4(c) 

26P— B4 

QxRch. 

17QxP 

B-K3 

27 Besigns. 

{a) Cochrane adopted this move first when giving the odds of the QKt to inferior 
players, and under similar condition Morphy and other masters also favored 
it, for it leads to fine traps into which a Knight player is likely to fall, and 
also ensures in most continuations a speedy co-operation of the two Rooks for 
the attack. But it actually hampers White's game in playing this variation 
to have the QKt on the board and lose time in its development. Altogether 
this form of the Muzio (j^ambit is really too bold for a tournament, and the 
superiority of material which Black gams should break the attack soon, as is 
the case here. 

(6) Best, for if 9. . .Qx P ch.; 10 B— K3, which piece Black, obviously, dare not 
capture. 

(c) The tables are turned with this move, and Black's attack with superior forces 
can hardly fail. 

POLLOCK'S GAMES. 

Game No. 331. 

Played in the first round, April 15th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

Black 

27RxBP 

D. G. Baird. 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

28RxRP 
29 P— QR4 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

30 R QB7 

2 QKt— B3 

KK1^B3 

31 R^B sq. 

3P— B4 

P Q4 

32Rn-B4 

4PxKP 

KtxP 

33 R— KKt4 

5Q— B3 

QKt— B3 

34R^R4 

6B— Kt5 

B QB4 

35 R— QKt 4 

7KtxKt(o) 

PxKt 

36B^Kt5ch. 

SBxKtck 

PxB 

37 R Ktsq. 

9QxKP 
10 Kt— B3 . 

0—0 

38B^Kt4 

B K3 

39R— Kt2 

11 P— B3 

B-Q4 

40R-Kt8 

12 Q— K2 

Q— K2 

41E^Kt8q. 

13P— Q4 

B Kt3 

42R-Kt2 

14 0-0 

P— B3 

43R— Kt8 

15B— B4 

QE^K sq. 

44 R-B8 ch. 

16 K— R sq. 

P-QB4 

45R-QR8 

17P— QR3(6) 

QBPxP 

46 E^B8 ch. 

ISPxQP 

PxP 

47 R^KB8 

19BxP 

RxKt(c). 

48E^B3 

20RxE 

BxP 

49R— Q3 

21 QR-K sq. 

QxB 

50R-Q4 

22QxQ 

RxQ 

51R^Kt4ch. 

23RxR 

BxR(B6)(d) 

52R^Kt5 

24 R— K8 ch. 

K-B2 

53R— Kt4 

25R— Q8 

B KB3 

54E^KB4 

26 R Q7ch. 

K— K3 

65R— B6 

B— K5 
BxQKtPC^-) 
B— Q5 
K-Q3 
B— QKt3 
B-Q4 • 
P— KKt3 
P— R4 
K— B4 
K— B3 
B— QB5 
K— B4 
B— R4 
B— QB2 
B— Kt3 
B— R4 
B— Kt3 
K-Q4 
K— B3 
B— B2 
K— Kt2 
B-Q4 
•B— K5 
B— KB4 
K— R3 
B— Q2 
B— Kt3 
K— R4 
B— KB4 • 

pollock's GAME& 

401 

56 Br— Q6 B— K6 75tli move, but ultimately given 

57 K— QB6 K X P up as drawn. 
The game was prolonged to the 

(a) It was probably better to play KKt — K2 and not to accept at once the 

ingenious sacrifice of the Pawn, which gives the opponent a strong attack for 

a long time. 
(6) Loss of time. Either Q— Q3 or QR— K sq. were better. 
(C-) Black wins two minor pieces and a Paw^n for the adverse Rook by this 

very pretty sacrifice, but the weakness of his position on the Q side soon acts 

as a set-otf against the advantage which he now gains, 
(ri) Obviously, if he take the other Rook, White would have won by R — B5. 
{€) A long and rather uninteresting struggle ensues now, in which neither side 

can make a winning impression. 

Game No. 832. 

Played in the second round, May 15th. 
SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

White 

Black 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

D. G. Baird. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KK1H-B3 
3P Q4 

QKt— B3 
PxP 

4KtxP 

Q-B3 

5 KKt— B3 (a) 
6K^-B3 
7B— Q2 
8 P— QR3 

B— B4 
B— Kt 5 (b) 
KK<^K2 
B E4 

9B— Q3 
10 ('— E3 

P— Q3 
K<H-K4 

llKtxKt 

QxKt 

12 0—0 

P— QR3 (c) 

13 K— R sq. 

14 P— B4 
15BxB 

16 P— B5 

17 Q— K sq. 

18 Q— Kt 3 
19B— B4 

20 QR— Q sq. 
21E^B4 
22R— R4 
23QxQ 

24 P— K5 (e) 

25 R— K sq. 

26 Q— QKt4 

27 K— R2 

BxKt 
Q— B3 
Q— R3 
K<H-B3 
B— Q2 
R— KKt sq. 
K— B sq. 
R— Ksq. 
Kfr-K4 
QxR(rf) 
KtxB 
Kt-K6 
KtxKBP 
B— B3 
P— KR4 

(a) A remarkable novelty. 

(b) As he cannot well afterward exchange, this Bishop is still worse placed now. 
Kt— Q5 waa his best play. 

(c) Much inferior to P — QB3, with the view of plajing B — B2. 

((f) The result justifies his speculating on making a better fight with two pieces 
for the Queen than with a Pawn behind and a very bad game after 23 . . . 
Q— B3;23RxP. 

(e) Of course, an error. R — K sq. was the right play. 

402 

POLLOCKS QAKES. 

28PxP 

PxP 

36 K— R3 

RxP 

29E^K5 

RxR 

37 Q Q4 

R— B4 

3QBxR 

K— K2 

38 Q B6 

B-Q4 

31P— Kt4 

PxP 

39 Q— Q4 

B Kt6 

32PxP 

K-Q2 

40Q-QKt4 

R— Kt4(/) 

33 B B4 

P— KKt4 

41 Q— K4 

34PxKt 

PxB 

Drawn by mutual consent. 

35QxKBP 

Br-Kt7ch. 

(/) Black has guarde<l all points, and the adverse King cannot gain any effective 
entrance into his game. His defence with two pieces against the Queen is a 
very fine specimen of play in a position of that character. 

Game No. 938. 

Played in the second round, May 17th. 
HUNGAKIAN DEFENCK. 

fVliite 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3B— B4 

4P— Q4 

5P— B3 

6Q— Q3 

7P-Q5 

SB— Kt3 

9 P— KR3 
10 B— K3 
IIP— Kt4 

12 P— B4 

13 B— B2 

14 Kt^B3 

15 P— QR3 

16 B X QBP 
17KtxP(/;) 
IBKtxB 

19 P— K5 

20 0—0-0 (d) 
21 P— Q6 

22 Kt— Q5 

23 K<^Kt 6 

Black 

I), a. Baird. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— K2 
P-Q3 
Kt— B3 
0-0 
Kt— Kt sq. 
P— QR4 («) 
P— KR3 
K{^R2 
P— QB4 
P— R5 
B— Q2 
Kt— R3 
Kt— B2 
PxB 
B— R5 (c) 
QxKt 
P— KKt 3 
BxP 
Kt— K3 
Kt-Q5 (e) 
Q— Q sq. 

24KtxR 

25 K— Kt sq. 

26 KR— B sq. 

27 Q— K4 
28KxKt 
29R^Q5 
30RxQBP 
31 Q X QKtP 
32R^Q5 
33Q— Kt5(gr) 
34Q— R5 

35 K— B3 

36 R— Kt 5 
37QxP 

38 R— Q sq. 
39K— Kt3 

40 K— R2 

41 QxKt 

42 P— Q7 

43 Q— Q5 
44P— B5 

45 P— B6 

46 F queens ch< 
47QxBch. 
48RxRch. 
49 P— B7, and 

Q— Kt4ch. 

RxKt 

B— R5 

KtxB(/) 

R— KB sq. 

Q-Q sq. 

Kt— Kt4 

K<^K3 

Q— Bsq. 

Q— R sq. 

Q-B3 

R— Kt sq. 

R— QB sq. 

Q-K5 

B— K8 oh. 

Kt-Q5 ch. 

KtxR 

B— R5 

R — Q sq. 

Q— KB5 

Q-B7 

R— Kt sq. 
{A)BxQ 

RxQ 

K— R2 
wins. 

(o) We di 
move. 

approve on general principles of White's early advance on the seventh 
Black's retort at this juncture Ls all the more feeble, as he could have 

POLLOCK S GAMES. 

403 

obtained the superiority of 

sition at once by 8. . .KK1^-^2; 9 B— B2 (or 9 

B— K3, 9 Kt— R3), 9. . TKt— B4; 10 Q— K2, 10 P— B4, etc. 
(6) He might have been well satisfied with recovering the piece and getting the 

superior game by P — B6, but the plan adopted is of doubtful value, 
(c) He should not have allowed his adversary to free at once his KP for action. 

17...B— Ksq.; 18 Kt— B3, 18B— R5; 19 P— K5, 19 P— Kt8, made it more 

difficult for the opponent to proceed with his attack. 
{d) It was hardly advisable to give up a Pawn, and he could well adopt K — K2i 

with the view of playing P — B4 soon. 
(^) Q — Q sq. was the simplest defence, but if he intended to give up the 

exchange, it was only justifiable in this position if he had played B — Q5, 

instead of the text moVe. 
(/)He abandons his stronghold in the adverse centre without cause, Q — Qsq., 

which made room for KKt — Kt 4, was by far better. 
iff) Q X Q, followed by K— B3, would have worked quicker toward the winning 

end. 
(/OOne of Mr. Pollock's bright surprises. Black cannot afterward stop the 

adverse BP from queening. 

Game No. 334. 

Played in the first round, April Isi 

EVANS GAMBIT. 

White 

Black 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2KK<H-B3 

QK^-B3 

3B B4 

B B4 

4P— QKt4 

BxP 

5P— B3 

B— R4 

6P— Q4 

PxP 

7KtxP(o) 

K1^K4 <b) 

8B Kt3 

P Q3 

9 0—0 

Kt— K2 

10 P— KB4 

QKt— B3 

IIQ— R5 

0 0 

12 P— B5 
13PxKt 
14B— Kt2 

15 P— B6 

16 P— K6 

17 K— R sq. 

18 K<^Q2 

19 PxP 

20 Kt— B3 

21 B— B2 

22 P— KR3 
23Kfr-Kt5(e) 
24QxRPch. 
25QxPmate. 

KtxKt(c) 
B— Kt3 
P-Q4 
Kt^Kt3 
R— Ksq. 
PxP 
P— B3(d) 
R-K3 
R— K5 
R— Kt6 
RxKtP 
RxB(/) 
K— B sq. 

(o) There is always refreshing originality in Mr. Pollock's play. The innovation 
will hardly strengthen the attack theoretically, but in practice it was well 
worth adopting exceptionally. 

<6) Much inferior to KKt— K3 or — B8. 

(c) 12. . .B— Kt3, and if 13 B— Kt2, 13 Kt— K4, or if 18 B— K8, 18 P— Q4 was 
his correct defence. 

(d) If 18 ... P X P or — KB4, then equally 19 Kt— B8, threatening Kt— Kt 5, with 
a fine attack. 

(«) Of course, White dare not take the Rook on account of the reply Kt — B6 ch. 
if)A. blunder, but his game was anyhow gone. 

404 

POLLOCK 8 OAHEa 

Game No. 335. 

Played in the second round, April 29th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— E4 

5 0—0 

6 P— Q4 (a) 
7B— Kt3 
8PxP 
9P— B3 

10 E— K sq. 

11 QKt— Q2 

12 Q X Kt (b) 

13 Q-Q3 
14B— B2 
15 Kt— Q4 
16PxKt 
17Q— K3(c) 

Black 
W. H. K. Pollock. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
P— QKt4 
P— Q4 
B— K3 
B— K2 
0-0 
KtxKt 
Q-Q2 
KBr— Q sq. 
P— KKt3 
KtxKt 
P-QB4 
QB— B sq. 

18B-Q3 
19QxP 

20 Q— KB4 

21 B— Q2 

22 B— K4 

23 B— Q3 

24 P— QKt 3 

25 Q— E6 
26B— Kt5 
27Q— B4 
28B— R6 
29QxQ 

30 E^KB sq. (/) 
31P— B4 

32 P— KE4 (g) 

33 P— KKt 4 
34Q— Kt5 
35 K— E2 (A) 
36P— E5 

37 Besigns. 

PxP 
B-QB4 
P— Q5 
B— B5 
B— Q4 
Q-K3 
Q— K2 
B— Kto 
Q— B sq. 
BxE(</) 
QxB(e) 
KB— QB6 
E— Ksq. 
B-Q7 
RxP 
E— K6 
B— Kt2 
ExB 
B— K6 

(a) 6 R — K sq. might strengthen the attack in a continuation similar to the one 

that occurred in the match between Messrs. Steinitz and Zukertort, viz., 6. . . 

Kt— QB4; 7BxKt, 7QFxB; 8 KtxP, 8 B— K2; 9 Q— K2, 9 Kt— K3; 10 

QKt— B3, with the better game. 
ib) In order to place sooner KB and Q on the same diagonal with threats of 

mate. Compare White's fourteenth move, 
(c) He ought to have exchanged Pawns at once, followed by B— Kt5. 
{d) Overlooking the force of the adverse reply. R — Q2, in order to make room 

for Q — Q sq. and afterward accordingly B — K2 or — B sq., was imperative. 
(e) This desperate resource was his only one, as White threatened Q— B6. 
(/) Much better was R— Q sq. 
(,g) He could hardly do much worse, as he not alone loses a most valuable centre 

Pawn, but he is also compelled by the opponent's reply, which threatens to 

win the Queen by R — Kli4, to compromi.se altogether his K side with the 

advance of the KKtP. 
(/I) If 35 B— Kt sq., 35 R^Kt 6 ch. ; 36 K— R2, 36 R— Kt 7 ch. ; 37 K— R3, 37 R— 

QBd ch., and wins. 

POLLOCK 8 GAMES. 

405 

Game No. 886. 

Played in the first round, March 29th. 

CENTRE COUNTER GAMBIT. 

White 

Black 

H. E. Bird. W. H. K. PoUock. 

IP— K4 
2PxP 
3 B— Kt 5 ch. 
4PxP 
5B— K2 
6P— Q3 
7KKt— B3 
8PxP 
9 0—0 

10 Q— K sq. 

11 QKt— Q2 
12KtxKt 
13 Q— Q sq. 
14B— Q3 

15 P— B3 

16 Q— B2 . 

17 B— KB4 

18 QR— K sq. 

19 B— K5 (6) 
20BxKt 
21RxE 
22P— B4(c) 

23 B— B sq. 

24 Q— K2 

25 Q— QB2 
26RxB 
27Kt— R4 

P— Q4 
KKt— B3 
P— B3(a) 
PxP 
P— K4 
B— QB4 
P— K5 
Q— Kt3 
KtxP 
0-0 
E^Ksq. 
ExKt 
Kt— Q2 
R— K2 
P— QR4 
P— KR3 
Kt— B3 
B— K3 
BxRP 
RxR 
PxB 
R— Qsq, 
B— Kt6 
BxQBP(d) 
BxB 
Q— Kt4 
R-Q4 

28 P— KKt 3 Q— Q6(c) 

29Q— R4 Q— Kt4 

30Q— KKt4ch. R— Kt4 

31 Q— B8 ch. K— R2 

32 Q— Q7 Q— QB6 

33 R— Q sq. Q— K3 
34Q— Q3ch. K— Kt2 
35 Q— B2 R^K4 
36K— Kt2 B— Kt3 

37 R— Q2 R^QB4 

38 Q— Q sq. R— <J4 

39 P— B3 R^K4 

40 P— B4 R^K8 
41Kt-B5ch.(/)QxKt 

42QxR 
43 Q— K2 
44Q-Q3 
45 Q— KB3 
46R— K2 
47QxBP 
48 K— R3 
49Q— Kt2 
50P— B5 
51 Q— B3 
52QxRP 
53 K— P*4 
54Q— Kt4ch. 

55 Q— B4 

56 Q— R6 ch., 
more moves. 

P— R3 
P— R4 

)-QB4 

:— R3 
Q-Q5 
Q— Kt 8 ch. 
Q— B8 ch. 
Q— Q8 
B— Q5 
K— Kt2 
Q— B8 ch. 
Q— QB8 
K— Bsq. 
Q-B4 
and mates in 

two 

(a) Not as good as 3. 
QB8, etc. 

B— 03; 4BxBch., 4QxBch., and if 5 P- QB4, 5 P— 

(fi) It could in no way improve his position to give up tlie QRP, and, moreover, 
it would have greatly strengthened his Q side to advance P — QKt 8. 

(c) The attempt to shut out the adverse QB is futile, and he only exposes himself 
to greater attack on that wing. 

(d) Finely played, for if 25 Q x B, 25 B x P ch. ; 26 K— R sq. , 26 B x R; 27 Kt x B, 
27 Q— B7, followed by R— Q8, and wins. 

(e) Much better was B — Q5. 

(/) Black's last move was a grave error, and White takes hold of the attack with 
great ingenuity. He must win the exchange, for if Black move the King, 
White answera Q — Kt4, winning still more easily. The rest of the game is a 
struggle against hope on Black's part. 

406 

POIXOCK 8 GAMES. 

Game No. 837. 

Played in the second round, April 23d. 
.SICILIAN DEFENCE. 

WUite 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

1P-K4 

2 P— Q4 («) 

3 KKi^BS 
4KtxP 
5B— K3 
6Kt— B3 
7B— K2 
8Q— Q2 
9P— KR3 

10 0—0—0 

11 P— KB4 
12BxKt 
13B— Q3 

14 K— Kt gq. 
16B— K3 
16 P— B5 (6) 
17B— B6 
18BxB 
19KtxP 
20KtxQ 
21B— B4 

mack 
H. E. Bird. 

P-QB4 
PxP 
QKt— B3 
P-Q3 
P— KKta 
B— Kt2 
Kt— B3 
P— KR4 
0—0 
B— Q2 
KtxKt 
B— B3 
Q-R4 
P— K4 
KR^Qsq. 
P-Q4 
PxP 
KxB 
QxQ 
P— K5 
PxP 

22 K— B sq. 
23B— K2 
24 QR— B sq. 
26E^B4 
26 R— K sq. 
27R— B2 
28P— KKt4(rf) 
29 PxP 
30RxPcL 

31 Kt— B3 

32 Kt— R4 ch. 

33 P— Kt 6 
34PxPch. 

35 R— Kt sq. ch, 
36R— Kt6(e) 
37R(Kt6)xKt 

38ExB 
39BxP 
40 Br— B sq. 
41BxR 
42B— K2 

43 K— Q sq. 

44 K— K sq. 

P— Kt4(c) 
Kt~Q4 
Kt— K6 
K— Kt3 
K— Kt4 
K<^Q4 
RPxP 
P— K6 
K— Kt3 
P— B3 
K— Kt2 
R^Rsq. 
KtxP 

. K— B2 
RxKt 

ch. 
K— K2 
R— R7 
R— R8ch. 
RxRch. 
R— KBsq. 
R^B7 
R— Kt7 
Resigns. 

(a) Out of its usual turn which is generally on the 3d move, but it makes no 
difference excepting if Black should accept the continuation 2... PxP: 3 
KKt— B3, 8 P— K4, after which White, although he dare not play 4 Kt x KP 
on account of the rejoinder 4.. .Q — ^B4 ch., winning the Knight, will yet 
obtain a good attack by 4 P — QB8. 

(6) Premature and misjudging the position which required Q — B3 to be plaved 
first. 

(c) Black, after having won a Pawn by hard play, commences an artificial line of 
attack that in the end involves him in difficulties, whereas the simple P — K6 
at this juncture, with the view of entering soon with the Knight at K5, 
would have won in an easy manner. 

(d) Excellent, and practically decisive, as it recovers the Pawn, with much the 
superior game. 

(e) The telling blow. It wins a piece. 

POLLOCK 8 GAMES. 

407 

Game No. 338. 

Played in the first round, April 10th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

Whit^ 

Black 

C. p. Burille. 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

KKt^B3 

3P— B4 

P Q4 

4PxKP 

KtxP 

5Q B3 

KtxKt 

6KtPxKt 

B— K2 

7P Q4 

0-0 

8B Q3 

P— KB4 

9Kt— K2 

P— B4(o) 

10 Kt— B4 • 

PxP 

llPxP 

B— Kt5ch. 

12 B— Q2 
13KxB 
14QxP 
15 P— K6 
16Q— Q6 
17 QR— K eq. 
18PxB(c) 

19 B^K8 oh. 

20 Q— B7 

21 P— KR4 

22 P— KKt 3 

23 P— Q5 

BxBch. 
B-Q2 
K— R sq. 
Q— Kt4(6) 
E^B3 
Kt— B3 
P— KR4 
K— R2 
R— Q sq. 
Q— R3 
R— KB sq. 
Q— B3 

24 P x Kt, and wins. 

(a) If played on the last move, it would have been very good, as it threatened P — 
Bo, but now it is quite a mistake, whereby the key of his centre is delivered. 

(6) Virtually losing a piece, though he may delay its capture for one move. 

(c) For all practical purposes the game which has been well-played by White is 
finished with this threat of a mate in two moves by K — K8 ch. 

Game No. 889. 

Played in the second round, May 10th. 

PETROFF'S DEFENCE. 

White 

Black 

6Q K2 

B K3 

7 B — Kt 3 

P— B3 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

C. F. Burille. 

'SP Q4 

B Q3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

9 0-0 

0-0 

2KKt— B3 

KKt^B3 

lOB— Kt5 

R— Ksq. 

3B B4 

KtxP 

11 P— B4 

Q— Kt3 
K<^K5 («) 

4Kt B3 

KKt— B3 

12 Q B2 

5 KtxP 

P Q4 

13 KtxKt 

PxKt 

(a) Hi.s previous move would have greatly helped him out of his difficulties into 
which he got, chiefly owing to his omis.sion on the third move to exchange 
Knights, if he had now pursued wliat at any rate should have been its 

408 

POLLOCK S OAME8. 

14P— B4(6) 

16 P— KB5 
16 P— 65 
17BPxB 

B— B2 (c) 
BxKt 
Q— B2 
BxPch. 

18 K— R sq. 
19BxP 
20 B— K5 (e) 

P— B3 
Q— B5(flO 
Resigns. 

object, viz.: 12. . .QB — KB4, and if 13 B x Kt, 13 P x B: U Q — KtS 
ch., 14 K — B sq., etc. But he has now aggravated his bad situation by 
the text move. 
(5) This fine move prepares a victorious onslaught on either of the wings, and 
Black cannot cover both. 

(c) If 14...Q— B2; ISP- 
attack. 

-KB5, 15QB— QBsq.; IBKtxKBP, with an excellent 

(d) If 19. . . P X B; 20 P— K7 disch., 20 K moves; 21 Q x P mate, 
(c) Wit and science are combined in White's play. He wins a piece now, for lie 
threatens P — K7 disch., followed by R — B8 ch., and mates next move. 

Game No. 840. 

Played in the first round, April 12th. 
STEINITZ GAMBIT. 

White 

Black 

G. H. D. Gossip. W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4P— Q4 
5K— K2 
6PxP 
7Kt— B3 
8KxB(o) 
9K— B2 
lOKtxQ 

11 P— B3 

12 B— Kt 5 ch. 
13PxP 

14 K— B3 
15PxPch. 

16 R— QKt sq. 

17 B— QR4 (c) 
ISKxBP 

19 R— K sq. 
20KxP 
21K— R3 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
PxP 
Q— R5 ch. 
P— Q4 
B— Kt 5 ch. 
BxKtch. 
Q— R4ch. 
QxQ 
KtxP 
K1H-B7 
P— B3(6) 
B— B4ch. 
O— O— O 
KxP 
P— Kt4 
P— Kt5ch. 
Kt— Q5 
Kt— K3 ch. 
Kt— B3 ch. 
R^Q4 

22 P— KKt 3 
23B— Kt3 
24K— Kt2 
25BxKt 

26 P— QKt 4 

27 Kt— B2 

28 Kt— K4 

29 B— K3 

30 QR— Q sq. 
31P— B4(c) 
32P— Kt5ch. 
33RxR 
34Ktr-B3 

35 Kt— Q5 ch. 

36 Rr-KB sq. 
37K<^B4 
38BxB 

39 PxP 
40K— B3 

41 K— K3 

42 R— Q sq. 
43R— Q5 
44P— B5 
45 K— B3 

(/) 

R— KKt sq. 
R— R4ch. 
Kt-Q4(rf) 
RxB 
B— Q3 
P— KR4 
B— K2 
R^Kt3 
K— B3 
RxR 
K— B2 
P— B4 
B— Q3 
K— Kt2 
P— R5 
BxKt 
PxP 
R— Kt5 
Kt— Q5 ch. 
Kt— K3 
R— Kt3 
Kt— Kt2 
Kt— R4 
R— KB3 

POLLOCK 8 GAMES. 

409 

46 R— Q7 ch. 
47RxP 

K— B sq. 
B^K3 

48P— B6 
49KxKt 

KtxB 

Besigns. 

(a) It was not alone safe, but in fact iLietter to retake with the Pawn, which would 
practically compel Black to sacrifice his Knight and to play O — O — O, with 
one strong piece less for the usual attack. Any attempt at harrassing the 
King further by 8. . .Q— K3 ch. ; 9 K— B2, 9 Q— R5 ch. ; 10 K— Kt sq., 10 Q— 
Kt 4 ch. ; 11 B — Kt 2. would only help to con.solidate White's forces. 

(6) After Queens are off the board, such a sacrifice of a Pawn becomes, of course, 
still more hazardous. 

(c. Still stronger was P — KIM first. 

(d) 24. . .Kt— Kt.5; 2.5 P— KR8, 25 Kt— K4, might have made it more diflicult for 
White to make hi.s game quite safe. 

(e) Very well played. 

(/).S.5P— Kt6ch., 3.5K— B3! (obviously, if 3.5... PxP; 86 Kt— Kt5 ch., and 
wins); 36 PxP, 36 R— Ktsq. ; 37 Kt -Kt5, was more forcible, but, of course, 
he is also bound to win in the way he plays. 

(Jam© No. 341. 

Played in the second round, May 13th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 

Black 

W. H. K. Pollock. G. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 
2 KK1^B3 
3B— B4 
4 P- B3 
5P— Q3 
6 P— KR3 
7B— Kt3 
8B— K3 
9PxB 
lOP— B4 
UP— Kt4 

12 Kt— B3 

13 Q— K2 

14 0-0-0 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— B4 
K<^B3 
P-Q3 
B— K3 
Q-K2 
BxQB 
0-0 

Kt— KR4 (a) 
Kt— B3 
QB— K sq. 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— B4 

15B— B2 

16 B— Kt sq. 

17 P— Q4 
18Q-Q2 
19QxKt 

20 B— B2 

21 K— Ktsq. (6) 

22 PxP 
23QxKt 
24R— Q5 
25RxRP(c) 

26 Ktr-Q2 (d) 

27 R— Q sq. 
28R— R3 

29 R— KKt 3 

30R(Kt3)-Kt8q. 

31R(Ktsq)-K8q. 

Kt— Kt5 
B— Q2 
Kt— R5 
KtxKt 
K<^B3 
P— QR4 
Kt— Kt6 
KtxB 
PxP 
B— B3 
Q— B3 
Q— R7 
QxP 
Q-K7 
B^Qsq. 

Rr-Q5 

Q— Kt7 

(a) Useles.s, as he cannot enter at Kt 6 after White's reply. 

(h) He oii^ht to have carefully guarded his Bishop against being exchanged for 

the Knight, as the majority of his Pawns stand on white squares, and his 

opponent retained a Bishop commanding that color. 

(c) The Pawn does him no good, as the opponent is sure to recover it, with the 
stronger position. 

(d) If 86 R^B sq., 28 Q— R8, etc. 

410 

POLLOCK S OAHES. 

32 K— B sq. KR— Q sq. Q x RP 

33P— KR4 QxKtP 36P— Kt4(e) RxKt 

34 R— KKt sq. Q— B5 37 Resigns. 

35 R (Kt sq.)— ^K sq. 

i/) The fate of the game was decided even without this blander. 

Game No. 343. 

Played in the first round, April 4th. 

TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCK. 

Wliite Black 

J. M. Hanham. W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt^B3 
3B— B4 
4P-Q3 
5PxP 

6 0—0 

7 R^-K sq. 

8 B— QKt 5 

9 QKt— Q2 
10K<H-K4 
IIP— B4 

12 P— B5 

13 P— QR3 

14 B X Kt (Q3) 

15 Kt— Q6 ch. 
16PxR 
17RxQ 

P— K4 
QK<^B3 
Kt— B3 
P-Q4(a) 
KtxP 
B— K2 
B— KKt5 
Q— Q3 
P— B3 
Q— Q2 

Kt(Q4)— Kt5 
0—0—0 
KtxQP(ft) 
QxB 
RxKt 
QxQ 
BxP 

18 P— R3 

19 P— KKt 4 

20 B— K3 
21P— Kt5 
22P— Kt4(c) 
23K— Kt2 
24Kt^Q2 
25RxB 

26 Kt— B4 

27PxP 

28R^Q5 

29 R— B5 (rf) 

30 R— KR5 
31KtxB 
32K— Bsq. (e) 
33RxP 
34R— Kt4(sf> 
35K— K2 

B— R4 
B— Kt3 
P— KR4 
P— R5 
B— R4 
P— K5 
BxR 
R— K sq. 
R— Qsq. 
PxP 
B— K4 
B— Q5 
BxB 

R — Kt sq. ch. 
Kt-K4(/) 
K<^B6 
Kt— R7 ch. 
Kt X R, and 

wins. 

(a) His KP becomes weak and subject to inconvenient attack after this. 

(6) The two Pawns which he obtains for the exchanj^ are separated on the two 

wings, and, especially so early in the game, they are no equivalent. 
♦c) An error which allows the opponent to recover the exchange, with a Pawn 

ahead. It was high time to withdraw Kt — Q2. 
(t^) B X K ch., followed by P — Kt 5, gave better prospects in fighting for a draw. 
(e) Feeble. K — R sq. was his only salvation. 
(/) Beautiful play. He wins the exchange by force. 
ig) Mate by B -Kt8 ch. and B — K8 being threatened, he had no other resource. 

If B X P, he loses a clear Book by the answer Kt — Q7 ch. 

POLLOCK 8 GAMES. 

411 

Game No. 348. 

Played in the second round, May 3d. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

B— Q2 
PxP 
B— B4 (d) 
PxKt 
RxQ 
Q— Kt4 
Q— E5 
Q— R3 
Q— B8 ch. 
QxKtP 
K— Kt2 
P— 114 
K— Kt3 
QxQP 
K— R3 
K— Kt4 
K— R3! 
K— R2 
K— R sq. 
K— Kt sq. 
K— B sq. 
Q— Qsq. 
Q— Q5 
QxR 
K— Kt2 

(a) Kt — Q2, with the view of playing Kt — KB sq., was, we believe, preferable. 
(6) Anderssen's favorite retreat for the KKt, viz., K sq., would have served 

Black's purpose better, as it would have given no opportunity to the adversary 

on the seventeenth move to effect an exchange, 
(c) If 19. . .P— K6; 20 P- KB4 isolates the advanced Pawn which must soon fall, 
(rf) An error of which the opponent avails himself most beautifully. K — B sq. 

was his best defence. If, however, 26...KtxKt, the game might have 

proceeded 27 Bx Kt, 27 Q— R4; 28 P— KKt4, 28 Q— R5; 29 B— Q5 ch., 29 K— 

Bsq.; 30 QxRch., SO RxQ; 31 RxRch., and mates next move, 
(e) The mating net could have been' drawn tighter here by B (K4) — KB4. 
(/) A much shorter and finer fiinish is here missed by 42 R — B4, 42 K — R sq. ! 

{or 42...Q— B8; 43 R (B4)— B6. etc.); 48 R— B5, 43 Q— Q8; 44 B— B3, and 

wins. 

WMk 

Black 

24 B B2 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

J. M. Hanham. 

25 P— B4 
26KtxKP 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

27KtxKtcli. 

2 KKt— B3 

P-Q3 

28BxB 

3P-Q4 

K<^Q2 

29RxR 

4P— B3 

B— K2 

30KR^B3 

5B QB4 

KKt— B3 

31 R^K4 

6Q— K2 

0—0 

32BxR 

7 P— KR3 

P— B3 

33 K— R2 

8B— Kt3 

P Q4 

34RxP 

9PxQP 

P— K5 

35R— B3 

10 Kt^K5 

PxP 

36 R— K7 ch. (e) 

11 Kt Kt4(a) 

Kt— Kt3 

37BxP 

12 B KB4 

B— K3 

38 B— K4 ch. 

13 Kt^Q2 

P— QR4 

39 R-R7 ch. 

14 P QR4 

KKt— Q2 (6) 

40R— Kt7ch. 

15 0-0 

P-B4 

41R^Kt6ch. 

16 Kt^K5 

B— Kt4 

42 R— B7 ch. (/) 

17KtxKt 

KtxKt 

43R-K6 

18BxB 

QxB 

44 R QKt7 

19 P -B3 

KBr-K sq. (c) 

. 45 R^QR6 

20 PxP 

BPxP 

46 R-KR6 

21 QR— K sq. 

Kt— B3 

47 R^R8 ch. 

22 Q K3 

Q Kt3 

48 R KtSch. 

23R-B2 

QR— Bsq. 

49 R X Q, and wii 

412 

POLLOCK S OAIIE8. 

Game No. 344. 

Played in the first round, March 30th. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
W. H. K. Pollock. 

1 P— K4 

2 KK<H-B3 
3B— Kt5 
4BxKt 
SKtxP 
6Kt— Kt4(a) 
7 K<r-K3 
8P— Q4 

9 0— O 

10 Kt— B3 

11 P— B4 

12 Kt— QB4 
13E^B3 
14R— BS 

{a) Original as well as strong. 
{b) Q— K2 was better, 
(c) Faulty, and causing the loss of a 
superiority of material. 

Blade 

15Q-Q3 

N. MacLeod. 

16R— B3 

17 Q— B sq. 

P— K4 

18 P— Q5 

QKt B3 

19 Kt— K3 

P— QR3 

20 Kt^K2 

QPxB 

21R— R3 

Q — Q5 

22Kt— Kt3 

Q X P ch. 

23BxKt 

B— Q3 

24 QE^Q sq. 

Kt B3 

25 P— B5 

0—0 

26 Q— B4 ch. 

Q— Kt3(A) 

27 Kt X B 

Kt Kt5 

28KtxB 

P— B3 

29Q R4 

Q— K4 

SOQxPch. 

Q— B2 

31B— R6 

Kt— R3 
B— KB4 
P— B4 
P— QKt4 
P— Kt5 
B— K5 
Kt— B4 
Kt X Kt (K6) 
QxP(c) 
Q-K3 
Q— K sq. 
K— R sq. 
QR— Q sq. 
, PxKt 
K— Kt sq. 
K— B2 
Resigns. 

piece, whei'eas BxQP gave hiui a safe 

Game No. 345. 

Played in the second round, April 29th. 
QUEKN'S BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

9 Q— QR4 B— Q6 

10 R^K sq. Q— Q2 

IIP— QB4(a.) P— K5 

12R— K3 PxKt 

13RxP Q— K3 

14R— K3 QxP 

15 Q— Q sq. B— B7 

16 Q— B3 Q— Q4 
17Q— K2 BxKt 
18RxB QxRP 
19 Q— Q3 Q— Q4 

White 

Black 

N. MacLeod. 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 P— QB3 

P Q4 

3K<^B3 

QKt— B3 

4B Kt5 

P— B3 

5Q— R4 

KK<^K2 

60 0 

PxP 

7QxP 

B KB4 

SBxKtch. 

PxB 

POLLOCK 8 GAMES. 

20 Q— R6 

K— B2 

32QxEP 

Kt— B5 

21 Q— Kt 7 

Q— R7 

33 Q B2 

Q-Q4 

22QxE 

QxE 

34 P— B3 

ExPch. 

23 B^K sq. 

Q R7 

35 K— E sq. 

ExPcL(6) 

24 Q Et8 

Q— E4 

36KxE 

Q— E4 ch. 

25Q— KtSch. 

Q — Q^ 

37K— Kt3 

Q Kt4ch. 

26 Q Kt8 

Q — Q2 

38 K— B2 

Q— KtTch. 

27QxRP 

Kt— Q4 

39 K-^K3 

Q— K7 ch. 

28 Q Kt8 

Br—Kt sq. 

40KxKt 

B— Q3 ch. 

29 Q Kt3 

B Kt5 

41K— Kt4 

Q— Kt7ch. 

30 Q B2 

Br-Ksq. 

42 Eesigns. 

31 E^B sq. 

E-K7 

413 

(a) A ba<lly played opening further degenerates with this move which costs a 
piece. 

(b) Black announced here mate in nine moves. The finish is worthy of a much 
better game. 

Game No. B46. 

Played in the first round, April 6th. 
EVANS GAMBIT. 

White 

Black 

W. H. K. Pollock. 

D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt^B3 

3B— B4 

B— B4 

4P— QKt4 

BxP 

5P— B3 

B R4 

6 0—0 

P Q3 

7P— Q4 

PxP 

8 Q— Kt 3 

Q B3 

9PxP(a) 

B Kt3 

10 P— K5 

PxP 

llPxP 

Q— Kt3 

12 KI^Kt 6 

Kt— Q sq. 

13 QKt— B3 

P — KE3 

14 KK<^K4 
16 B— R3 

16 QE— K sq. 

17 Kt— Q5 
18KtxB 
19 P— B4 
20QxB 
21Q— Kt4 
22Kt— Kt3 
23 Q— Kt 3 
24PxKfc 

25 Q— KB3 

26 Kt— B5 

27 Kt— Q4 

28 Q— Kt 4 
29E— K4 

K1^K2 
KKt— B3 
B— K3 
KtxP 
RPxKt 
BxB 
ExB(6) 
ExP 
Kt— B3 
E^E4 
Q— K3 
0—0 (c) 
K(^K2 
Q-Q4 
E— E5 
Kt— Kt 3 

(o) An obsolete form of this opening. Waller's attack by 9 P— K5, 9 P x P; 10 

R — K sq. , is the only way to keep up the pressure. 
(6) If 20 ... Kt X Q; 21 Kt— B6 ch. , and mates next move, 
(c) Practically this ends the fight, as White's sacrifice of Pawns could only be 

compensated by an attack direct against Black's King which, however, 

has now taken safe refuge. 

414 

POLLOCK 8 OAHES. 

30P— K6 

P— KB4 

41E— Kt7ch. 

K— Q3 

31KtxP 

QxR 

42RxP 

K— B3 

32QxKt 

RxKt 

43 R KB7 

P— B5 

33QxR 

QxQ 

44P— Kt4 

P— Kt4 

34RxQ 

B^K5 

45P— R4 

P— B6 

35Br-B7 

P— B4 

46K— Kt3 

P— B7 

36R— K7 

P— Kt3 

47 R^B sq. 

P— Kt5 

37 K— B2 

K— B sq. 

48 P— Kt 5 

PxP 

38 K— B7 ch. 

K— K sq. 

49PxP 

P— Kt6 

39R— B6 

K— K2 

60 R— B sq. 

K— Q2 

40RxP 

RxP(d) 

51 Resigns. 

{d) The iitronghold 

of White's last hope 

is gone. 

Game No. 847. 

Played in the second round, May 6tli. 

HUY LOPEZ. 

\ 

White 

Black 

D. M. Martinez. W. H. K. Pollock. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
5P— Q3 
6K<^B3 

7 0—0 

8 B— KKt 5 
9Q— Q2 

10 KKt-R4 

11 Kt— B5 
12PxB 
13BxKt 

14 P— KKt 4 

15 Q— R6 

16 QR^Q sq. 

17 K— R sq. 

18 P— B3 
19B— Kt3 

20 QR^K sq. 

21 Kt— Q sq. 

22 P— B3 
23B— B2 
24Q— R4 
25 Kt— B2 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
B— B4 
0—0 
P-Q3 
Kt— K2 
B-K3 
Kt— Kt3 
BxKt 
Kt— K2 
PxB(a) 
P-Q4 
Q-Q3 
K— R sq. 
R— KKtsq. 
R— Kt4 
P— B3 

QR— KKt sq. 
QR— Kt2 
B— Kt3 
Kt— Kt sq. 
P— KR4 
R— R2 

26 Q— Kt 3 
27RxB 

28 PxP 

29 B— Q sq. 

30 R— Kt sq. 

31 Q— R3 ch. 

32 Q— B3 
33QxPch. 
34RxQ 

35 QR— B sq. 

36 P— Q4 

37 R (B sq.)- 

38PxR 
39R^Q6 
40P— B6 
41B— Kt4 

42 BxKt 

43 R^Q8 ch. 
44B— Kt4 
45P-B4(/) 
46K— Kt2 
47 B— Q sq. 
48K— B2 
49K— Kt2 
50 K— B2 

BxKt (ft) 

PxP 

Kt— R3 

R(R2)— Kt2 

KtxBP 

R^R2 

Kt— R5 

QxQ 

Kt— Kt3 

Kt— B5 (c) 

Kt— K3 
B5 (d) 

RxR 

Kt— Kt4 

PxP 

Kt— K3 

R— R3 

RxP(e) 

K— Kt2 

P— Q6 

PxP(?) 

P^B4 

R— Kt3ch. 

R^B3 ch. 

R^KtSch. 

R— B3 ch. 
Drawn. 

pollock's games. 415 

(a) Black has the better position after the exchanges with the strong centre 

which he can form, and tlie open KKt file that, as will be seen, can be 

utilized for the attack with heavy pieces. 
(6) B — B2, threatening Q— Q scj. or— K2, followed by P— K5, was much stronger. 
(c) The more simple K— Kt sq. was more safe too. 
id) Px P, followed by B— B2, was better. 
i€) A very clever resource whereby he obtains Pawns sufficient for the piece 

given up, besides a strong attack. 
(/) White defends with remarkable ingenuity in an apparently hopeless position. 
(^) No mare than a draw could have resulted after 45. . . P— Q7; 46 P x P, 46 R — 

B8 ch. ; 47 K— Kt 2, 47 P queens; 48 B x Q, 48 R x B; 49 R— Q7, etc. 

Game No. 348. 

Played in the second round, May 9th. 

GRECO COUNTER GAMBIT. 

White Black SQxQch. KxQ 

D. M. Martinez. W. H. K. Pollock. ^^^^^^^ gZKB4 

IP— K4 P— K4 110—0—0 Kt— Q2 

2KKt-B3 P— KB4(a) 12 B— K2 P— B4(rf) 

3P— Q4(fe) PxKP 13B— K3 Br-B sq. 

4KtxP KKt— B3 14Kt— Bsq. (e) PxP(/) 

5Kt— Kt4(c) P— Q4 15BxP B— B4 

6KtxKtch. QxKt 16Kt— K3(g) B— K3 

7Q— R5ch. Q— B2 17BxB KtxB(A) 

(a) Mr. Pollock is very partial to this dangerous opening which he sometimes 
adopts against the strongest players in important tournament games. 

(6) 8 P X P brings about, by a transposition of moves, a variation of the Philidor, 
for the reply 3. . .P — Q3 is considered best bv all authorities, after which the 
'' Modem Chess Instructor" proceeds with 4>— Q4, 4 P— K5; 5 Q— K2, 5 Q— 
K2, 6 KKt-<J2!, etc. 

(c) The line of play initiated here and pursued in the next two moves is new, we 
believe, but hardly advisable, as Black's Pawns form a strong centre that 
becomes all the more formidable after the exchange of Queens. 

( d) With this advance Black gratuitously loosens his centre, and the weakness of 
his QP gives him the inferior position. He ought to have played B — K2, 
followed by R— KB sq. and — KKt sq., and his game was still slightly 
preferable. 

(e) An excellent move for the dqfence as well as for the preparation of a counter- 
attack in the centre. 

{/)This capture was unwise. He ought to have abandoned his plan of operations 

against the adverse King, and secured his own game by P — B5. 
ig) Well played. He gains a Pawn by force, with an excellent position. 
(h) If R X B, White equally wins a Pawn by P— QKt 4. 

416 

POLLOCK 8 OAHE8. 

ISKtxP Kt— R5 

19Kt— B4(0 BxRP(/) 

20 R— Q7 ch. K— B3 (k) 

21 Kt— R5 ch. K— Kt3 
22KR^QBq. (/) R-B3 

23RxPcli. 
24P— KKt4 
25P— KR4(to) 
26 E— Q6 cb. 
27P— Kt5mate. 

K— 113 
B^KKt3 
RxR 
R— Kt3 

(»■) White conducts the attack with vigor and accui-acy. 

(j)The opponent threatened KtxB, followed bv B — Kt4ch., and he could 
scarcely do better than what he did. If 19..'B— B4; 20 P— KKt4, 20 P— 
KKt4;'21 Kt— R3, etc., or if 19. . .KR— K s<i.; 20 B— Kt5, and wins; or if 
19...Kt— IM; 20 P— QKt4, 20 Kt— Q6 ch.; 21BxKt, 21PxB;22RxP, 
remaining with two Pawns ahead. 

(At) The retreat of the King to the last row also left little hope of saving the ganie, 
for White might simply sweep off the Pawns on the Q side and win easily. 

(2) It is rarely that such a fine position arises in the ending after the exchange of 
Queens. White has very cleverly driven the opponent into a mating net. 
He threatens now an elegant mate by 23 R x P ch., 23 K— B4 (or 28. . .K— 
R3; 24 R— Q6 ch., and mates next move); 24 B— Kt4 ch., 24 K— K4; 25 R— 
Kt6 mate. 

(m) A masterly finish. 

Game No. 849. 

Played in the first round, April 5tli. 
TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

WhiU 

Slack 

W. H. K. Pollock. J. Taubenhaus. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— B4 
4Kt— Kt5 
5PxP 
6P— Q3 
7 KKt— B3 
8Q— K2 
9PxKt 

10 P— KR3 

11 Kt— K5 (a) 
12Ki^Kt4 

13 Kt— B3 

14 Kt— R2 

15 B— B4 

16 0—0—0 

17 K— Kt sq. 

18 B— K3 

P— K4 
QK1H-B3 
Kt— B3 
P-Q4 
Kt— QR4 
P— KR3 
P— K5 
KtxB 
B— QB4 
0-0 
Q— K2 (6) 
K^-R2 
P— KB4 
B— Q2 
B— K sq. 
P— R3 
P— KKt4 
Kt— B3 

19BxB 
20 P— KKt 4 
21KtxP 
22QxKt 

23 B— Q6 (r) 

24 R-Q5 (d) 
25QxQ 
26RxQP 

27 E^K sq. 

28 K— B sq. 

29 RxR 

30 K— Q2 (e) 

31 K— B3 

32 Kt— B3 

33 R— Q2 

34 Kt— Q4 
35R-K2 
36KtxR 

37 P— Q4 

38 Kt— Kt sq. 

39 P— Kt 3 

QxB 
P— B5 
KtxKt 
P— Kt4 
PxP 
QxQBP 
PxQ 
K— Kt2 
B— B2 
KR— K sq. 
RxR 

R— QKt sq. 
R— Ksq. 
R-K7 
R^K5 
K— B3 
RxR 
B-Q4 
B— Kt7 
B— B8 
PxP 

POLLOCK 8 GAMES. 

417 

K— K3 

60P— B4 

PxP 

K— K4 

51Kt^R3 

K— K6 

K— B3 

52P— Kt5 

PxP 

K— K4 

53KtxKtP 

K— B7 

B— Kt7 

54K— B4 

K— Kt7 

B— B8 

65 K Q4 

P— R6 

B-Q6 

56KtxP 

KxP 

PxP 

57KtxP 

BxP(</) 

Drawn. 

K Q6 

40EPxP 

41 K— B5 

42 Ktr-B3 ch. 

43 Kt— Kt sq. 
44P— KB3(/) 
45 P— B4 
46P— Kt4 

47 P— Kt 5 

48 PxP 
49KxB 

(a) New, but a questionable experiment. 

(6)Forby 11...R— K8q.;13Kt— Kt4, 12KtxKt; ISPxKt 18 P— K6; 14 Bx 
P, 14 B X B; 15 P X B, 15 Q— Kt 4, Black would have obtained a strong 
strong attack. 

(c) White has a won game in band either simply by Q — Q4 or by pressure of a 
K side attack, commencing with P — KR4. The sally adopted was not accur- 
ately enough reckoned out. 

(tf) He probably saw now that if 24QxR, 24 B— B3; 25QxP, 25R— Bsq., 
winning the Queen. 

(e) Better than 30 R x QRP, 30 R— K7, with a strong attack. 

(/) Weak play, for this Pawn, where it stood, was le.s8 liable to be attacked and 
also kept the adverse King aloof in case White's King had to move off. . 

(ff) Black's play for a draw is very ingeniously conceived. 

Game No. 350. 

Played in tlie second round, May 4tli. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

J. Taubenhaus. W. H. K. Polkxik. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 

6 0—0 
6P— Q4 

7 B— Kt 3 
SPxP 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
P— QKt4 
P-Q4 
B— K3 

9P— B3 

10 R— K sq. 

11 Ki^Q4 
12PxKt 

13 P— B3 

14 Kt— B3 

15 P— KR4 
16P— Kt4(a) 
17PxB 
IBPxKt 

19 B— K3 (6) 

B— K2 

0-0 

KtxKt 

B— KB4 

Kt^Kt4 

P— QB3 

Kt^K3 

BxRP 

BxR 

Q— R5 

Q— Kt6ch. 

(a) White had, we believe, the better game at this point, where he unwisely 
rushes at a bait which his deep-sighted adversary has very ingeniously 
thrown, and which draws him on to a perilous line of play. 

(6) P — K7 forced the adversary to draw, and this was probably his best plan. 

418 pollock's oames. 

20'K— B8q.(c) PxP 24QxEch. KxQ 

21 Q X B E X P ch. 25 Kt— K2 (d) Q— B6 ch- 

22B— B2 ExBch. 26 K— Kt sq. QxKt 

23QxE Br— KBsq. 27 Eesigns. 

(c)If 20K— Rsq., 20 PxP; 21QxB, 21Q— R6ch.; 22»K— Ktsq., 22RxP, 

with a fine attack. 
{d) A fatal error. R — Q sq. left still much scope for a good fight, in wliich Black. 

however, had the advantage with his two passed Pawns on the K side, and 

many prospective opportunities of drawing by perpetual check in case of 

emergency. 

> 

BIED'S GAMEa 

Oame No. 851. 

Played in the first round, April 8th. 
KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 

Black 

H. E. Bird. 

D. G. Bain 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 P- KB4 

B B4 

3 KKt— B3 

P Q3 

4 P— QB3 (a) 

B KKt 5 

5B— QB4 

QKt— B3 

6Q— Kt3 

BxKt(6) 

TBxPcL 

K— B sq. 

8BxKt 

RxB 

9PxB 

Q— R6 ch. 

10 K— Q sq. 

Q— BK7 

11 K— B2 

E—K sq. 

12Q B4 

PxP 

13 Q— B sq. 

QxQ 

14RxQ 

P— KKt4 

15 P— Q4 

B Kta 

16P— QR4 

P-QR4 

17Ki^-Q2 
18 K<r-B4 
19P— Kt3 
20K— Q3 
21E^R2 

22 R— KKt 2 

23 K— K2 

24 KR— Kt sq. 

25 B— Q2 

26 B— K sq. 

27 B— B2 
28Kt— Kt2 

29 Kt— Q3 

30 P— KR4 
31PxPch. 

32 B— K sq. 

33 P— B4 
34B— B3 

35 P— K5 ♦ 

Kt— Kt sq. 
Kt— Q2 
R— K3 
R-KR3 
R-R6 
R^Kt3 
K— B2 
K— B3 
R— R4 
K— Kt2 
K— R3 (c) 
P— QB3 
B— Qsq. 
Kt— Bsq 
BxP 
R— B3 
P— Kt3 
R— B2 
P— Q4 

(d) 

(a) The old attack which has rightly fallen into disuse, as B— B4 is stronger. 

(6) Inferior to 6. . .Q— Q3, with the probable continuation : 7 Bx P ch., 7 Qx B; 

8QxP, 8K— Q2; 9QxR, 9BxKt; lOPxB, lOQxP, etc., with a strong 

attack. t 

{c) There was good and sound manoeuvring in White's play since Queens were 

exchanged, whereas Black, with his K side attack, has only blocked his KR. 

It is also diflacult to see the object of the text move. 
(d) There was no good answer to White's fine last move. If 80. . .P x P; 31 R x 

R ch. , 31 P X R; 32 Kt x P, 32 R— Kt 4; 33 B x P, and wins. 

420 

BIRD 8 GAMES. 

36 P_B5 
37KtxP 

PxP 
B^E2 

38B— Q2 
39ExB 

B^QE sq. (e) 
Eesigns. 

{e) A piece, and therefore the game, is lost forthwith, but he had only the choice 
of evils. If 38...R— B2; 39 B x RP, etc., or if 38...Kt— Kt3; 39 Kt— K(J, 

and wins. 

Game No. 3"i2. 

Played in the second round, May 7th. 

SICILIAN Of^ENING. 

m,Ue 

Black 

21 B K3 

P— Kt4 

D. G. Baird. 

H. E. Bird. 

22 Q B4 

23 Kt— Q4 

P Q3 
R— Ksq. 

IP— K4 

P QB4 

24 Kt B3 

B— B5 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

25 Q— K2 

BxB 

3P— Q4 

PxP • 

26QxB 

Q-K2 

4KtxP 

P— KKt3 

27 P— B4 

P_K4(ft) 

5KtxKt(rf) 

KtPxKt 

28R— Q2 

K«^B5 

6B Q3 

B KKt 2 

29 KR Qsq. 

R— Rsq. 

7 0—0 

P— KR4 

30 K<^R2 

B-K3 

8 Kt— B3 

P— R5 

31 R— QB sq. 

KR— QKt sq. 

9 P— KR3 

R— Kt sq. 

32 Kt— B3 

P— R4 

10 Q— B3 

P— K3 

33 Q B3 

R— Kt5 

HE Ksq. 

Q-R4 

34 Q B2 

Q-Q2 

12 B QB4 

B K4 

35 R (B sq.)— Q 

sq. 

13 B Kt3 

Kt-B3 

KR-Kt3 

14 B— Q2 

Q— B2 

36 Q B3 

P— R5 

15 B Kt5 

Kt— R4 

37KtxKP(f;) 

BPxKt 

16 QR— Q sq. 

P— B3 

38RxP 

Kt— K7 ch. 

17 B Bsq. 

K— B2 

39 K— R2 

QxR 

18 K<^K2 

P-QB4 

40RxQ 

KtxQ 

19 P— B3 

K— Kt2 

41RxB 

RxR 

20 Q— Q3 

R-Kt3 

42 Resigns. 

{a) The adverse centre fiecomes very strong after this exchange. 

(6) The mancBiivring in the middle game was fair on both sides. Black's last 
move, however, weakened his centre, and White had better prospects of turn- 
ing this in his favor by here playing Kt — Q3, with the view of reaching Qo by 
way of QB3. 

{c) Closing his rather undecided defensive tactics with a miscalculation that 
costs a Rook. 

BIRD 8 GAMES. 

421 

Game No. 353. 

Played in the first round, Marcli 25th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 
H. E. Bird. 

IP— K4 

2 P— KB4 

3 KKt— B3 
4P— B3 

5 Q— Kt 3 
6PxB 
7 K— Q sq. 
8P— R4 
9 B— K2 
lOPxP 

11 Kt— R3 

12 Kt— B4 
13KtxB 
14 R— B sq. 
15Q— Kt5 
16QxQ 

17 P— Kt 3 

18 K— B2 

19 P— Q3 

20 P— KB4 

21 P— B5 

22 R— KKt sq. 

23 B— R5 

24 R— Kt 3 
25B— R3 

26 QR— KKt sq. 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
B— KKt5 
BxKt 
Q— R5 ch. 
B— Kt3 
Q— B7 
P— QR4 (a) 
PxP 
KKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
PxKt 
Q— B4 (h) 
0-0 
PxQ 
KB^Q sq. 
QR— B sq. 
Kt— Q2 
R— K sq. 
P— B3 
K— R sq. 
R— K2 
Kt— B sq. 
P— QKt 3 
R-Q2 

27 B— B sq. 

28 B— R6 

29 K— Q2 

30 B— K8 

31 B— QKt 5 

32 B-QB4 
33KtPxKt 
34P— R4 

35 P— R5 

36 K— K2 

37 B— K3 

38 R— QKt sq. 

39 P— Q4 
40PxP 
41BxQP 
42 R— QB3 
43R^Kt5 

44 BxKt 

45 K— K3 

46 K— Q3 
47R(B3)— Kt3 
48RxRP 

49 R— Q5 

50 R— Q7 oh, 
51KxR 
52K— Kt4 

B2 

W 

R (B sq.)- 
Kt— R2 
R— K2 
Kt— B sq 
Kt— Q3 
KtxBch. 
R— KB2 
R(QB2)— K2 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— B sq. 
P— R3 
R— Kt2 
BPxP 
PxP 

R(B2)— QB2 
Kt— Q2 
Kt— B4 
RxB 
K— Kt sq. 
K— B2 
R— B3 
R(Kt2)— B2 
RxP 
RxRch. 
R— R2 
K— K2 

And after a few more moves the 
game was given up as drawn, (d) 

(a) He could not venture on 9. . .QKt— B3, on account of 10 P— R5, 10 Kt x P; 11 
R X Kt, 11 B X R; 12 Q X KtP, followed by Q -Kt .5 ch. and Q x B. 

(b) Q X RP was superior. 

(c) Black prudently does not accept the proferred sacrifice of two Bisliops against 
Rook and Pawn, for the opponent was sure afterward to win also tlie QKtP, 
and Black's Rook and two Knights were then no match against the adverse 
combined two Rooks which would have made liavoe among Black's isolated 
Pawns. 

(d) The game has been well defended by Black, and the position had assumed a 
drawLsh character for some time. 

422 

BIBD B OAJfES. 

Game No. 8S4. 

Played in the second round, April 18th. 
SICILIAN DEFENCE. 

White 

J. \V. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3P-Q4 
4KtxP 
6B— K3 
6B— Q3 

7 0—0 

8 Kt— B3 

9 QKt— K2 
lOQ— Q2 
UKtxKt 
12B— Q4 
13KtxB 
14Q— B8 
15P— KR3 

16 B— K2 

17 Kt— B3 
IBKt— R4 

19 P— B4 

20 P— B5 
21PxPch. 

22 B— B4 

23 Q-Q2 
24PxP 
25BxP 

26 P— B3 

27 B— B7 
28PxKt(6) 
29 Q— B4 

Black 
H. E. Bird. 

P— QB4 

QKt— B3 

PxP 

P-Q3 

B-Q2 

K<^B3 

P— KKt3 

B— Kt2 

KKt-Kt5 

P— KR4 

PxKt 

BxB 

Q— Kt3 

0—0 

Ki^K4 

P— QB4 

P— B3 (a) 

K— R2 

Kt— B3 

K^-Q5 

K— Kt2 

P— K3 

P-Q4 

PxP 

QR-Qsq. 

Q-Q3 

Q— Kt6 

QxKt 

QxQ 

30Rx 
31RxQP 

32 QR— Q sq, 

33 P— QKt 3 
34Br-Q5 
35 BxB 
36Er-Q7 
37R(Q8q.)— Q2 

38 R (Q7)— Q4 

39 R— KB2 

40 P— KR4 

41 K— R2 

42 R— Q6 

43 K— Kt 3 
44R— B3 
45KxR 
46P— R4 
47 R^Kt 6 
48K— Kt3 

49 R^Kt 5 

50 K— R2 
61RxP(f/) 
52R^R8 

53 P— R5 

54 K— R3 
65P— Kt3 
56 R^KR8 (e) 
57K-Kt2 
58RxPch. 

59 R— QKt 5 

60 K— B sq. 

Drawn. (/) 

PxP 
B— B4 
R— QKt sq. 
QR^Bsq. 
BxP 
KxB 
PxQR4 
KR— K sq. 
R— B6 
R— K3 
R— B8 ch. 
KR^K8 
R^R8 ch. 
R— B6 ch. 
RxRch. 
R— QR8(r) 
R— QKt8 
R— B8 ch. 
R— Q8 
R— Q6 ch. 
R— K6 
RxP 
K— B4 
R— Kt5 
R^Ktech. 
R— Kt8 
R^R8 ch. 
R— QR8 
K— Kt5 
R^R7 ch. 

(a) The loosening of his K wing by this advance exposes him to a dang(>rou.s 
attack. 

(b) Much better was Q— KB2. 

(c) If R X P, Black wins easily by B— R6. 

(fl) White's play could have been much amended, but still it was good enough for 
winning purposes up to this juncture, where he ought to have played P — 
Kt ;j first, followed by K — Kt 3, in order to reach the centre w^ith his King. 

(e) The opponent has constructed an ingenious drawing position which would 
have held good even against 56 P — R6, for then followed 56... R — Kt7: 57 
1'— R7, 37 R— QR7, and draws. 

bibd's games. 423 

(/) After 60. . .Kx P; 61 P— R5, 61 K— Kt 5; 62 P--KR6, 62 R— KR7; 63 P-~R6, 
68RxP; 64P — R7, 64R— R8ch.; 65 K— Kt2, 65 R— QR8, the draw is 
manifest. 

Game No. 855. 

Played in the second round, April 25tli. 
RUY LOPEZ. 

12Q— K5 Q— B3(6) 

13QxP(Q5) B-K2 

UBxP! Q— KKt3 

ISBxBch. KtxB 

16 Q— Q8 ck K— Kt 2 

17QxKt R— Bsq. 

18 Q— K6 ch. K— R2 

19 Kt— Q2 Br— KKt sq. 
20P— KKt3 B— R6 
21Kt— K4 R— Kt2 
22 Kt— B6 ch. K— R3 
23Q— B4ch. Q— Kt4 
24 Q X Q ch., and wins. 

(a) This error costs a Pawn at least and quite unsettles his position besides. 

(6) Black plays desperately and tries on sacrificing tactics. P — B3 was his best 

under Dad circumstances, 
(c) White's play has been very clever from the point where the opponent left the 

winning opportunity open. 

/ 

Game No. 356. 

Played in the first round, April 3d. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

White Black 4 KKt— B3 B— Q3 

H. E. Bird. C. P. BurUle. ^ Q^^ P— fif ^ 

IP— KB4 P— Q4 7Q— Ksq. Kt— B3 

2P— K3 KKt— B3 8 P— Q4 P— QKt3(a) 

3B— K2 P— K3 9Q— Kt3 0—0 

(a) Having already made preparations by P— QR3 to maintain his chain of 
Pawns on the Q side, he now could have played P — B5 more effectively. 

White 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

H. E. Bird, 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt^B3 

QKt— B3 

3B— Kt5 

Kt— Q5 

4EtxKt 

PxKt 

6 0—0 

P— KE4 

6P Q3 
7B— KB4 

B— B4 
P— KKt4? 

8B— Q2 

P— QB3 

9B— QB4 

P— Q4? (a) 

lOPxP 

PxP 

11 Q E2cli. 

K— Bsq. 

424 

BIBD 8 GAMES. 

10 Kt— K5 
llKtxKt 
12Q— E3 
13KtxKt 
14 P— B3 
15P— KKt4 
16E— B2 
17E— Kt2 
ISKPxP 
19 B— K3 . 
20PxP 

21 K— K sq. 

22 QR— KKt sq. 

23 P— QKt 3 
24E^Kt5 
2aE^E5 
26 P— B4 ! 
27PxP 

B— Kt2 
BxKt 
Kt— K5 (ft) 
PxKt 
P— B4 
Q-K2 
B— K sq 
PxQP? 
P— QKt4 
B— B3 
PxP 

q-k:3 

R— B2 
B-Q4 
B— K2 
P— Kt3 
PxP 
BxP 

(c) 

28RxKtPch. (d)QxR 
29BxB R— Ktsq. 

30BxRch. KxB 

31QxPch. QxQ 

32RxQch. B— B3 

33 R^QR5 R— Kt 3 

34 P— Q5 
35K— Kt2 
36 B— R7 
37E^B5 

38 P— KR3 (f) 

39 K— B sq. 
40R— B6 
41PxR 

42 K— K2 

43 B— B2 

44 B— Q4 

45 K— K3 

46 B— R7 

47 B— Q4 

48 P— QE4 

49 B— B6 
60 B— Kt 5 
51 P— KE4 
52KxP 
53 B— K7 
64 K— B6 
55 K— Kt 5 

R— Q3 
K— Kt3 
B— Qsq. 
K— B4 
R— KKt 3 ch. 
KxP 
RxR 
B— B2 
P— KR4 
K— B4 
K— K3 
K-Q4 
B-Q3 
B— B2 
B— Q3 
B— B2 
P— QR4 
KxP 
B— Kt6 
B— K8 
K— Q4 
K— B5 

Drawn. 

(5) Much better was P — QKt 4, with the view of driving off the adverse Knight 
by P— Kt5. 

(c) Waste of time. Compare Black's uineteeutii move. 

(d) White's very ingenious attaclc might have viflded more decisive results heie 
if he had first played BxB, for after 28. .'QxB; 29RxPch., if29...K— B 
sq. ; 30 R X BP, and should win. Or if 29. . .P x R; 30 R— R8 ch., 30 K— Kt2: 
81 K X R, with a Pawn ahead and a strong attack. 

(e) Losing a valuable Pawn which he could have easily protected with increased 
force of attack by B — Kt 8. 

Game No. 357. 

Played in the second round, April 29th. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White 
C. F. Burille. 

1P-Q4 

2 P— QB4 

3 QKt— B3 
4P— K3 

Black 

H. E. Bird. 

P— KB4 
KKt— B3 
P— K3 
B— Kt6 

5 Q— Kt 3 

6B— Q3 

7 KKt— K2 

8P— QR3 

9QxB 

10 P— QKt 3 (o) 
IIB— Kt2 

P— B4 
P— QKta 
Kt— B3 
BxKtch. 
0-0 
B— Kt2 
PxP 

BIBD 8 GAMES. 

425 

12PxP 

13 0— O 

14 QR— K sq. 

15 Q— Q2 

16 Q— B sq. 

17 P— B3 
18Kt— Kt3(/>) 

19 Q— B3 

20 B— B sq. 
21BxKt 

22 K— B2 

23 K— K3 

Kt— K2 
E^Bsq. 
Kt— Kt3 
Kt— K5 
Q— R5 
Ki^Kt4 
Kt— B5 
R-KB3 
E— R3 (c) 
QxPch. 
Kt— R6ch. 
KtxB 

24KxKt 

25 K— K3 

26R— B2 

27 QE^KB sq. 

28K— K2 

29 K— K sq. (d) 

30RxR 

31 B— B sq. 

32RxP 

33RxRch. 

34 P— B5 

35 Resigns. 

R— Kt3 

RxKt 

RxKtP 

P— B5 ch. 

BxPch. 

RxR 

Q— KtSch. 

B— K5 

R^Bsq. 

KxR 

B— Kt7 

(a) P — Q5 was stronger, as Black could not capture twice, for then White, after 
pinning 63* B— B4, could also bring Kt — B4 and Q — Q8 to bear upon it. P — 
QKt 4 was also better. 

(6) An error which is severely punished. B — B8, followed by B — Q2, was the 
right play. 

(c) Beautiful and decisive. 

(d) There was no better answer to AVhite's last master-move, for if K x B, then 
followed Q — Kt 6 ch. and Q-— K6 ch., winning the Rook. 

Game No. 858. 

Played in the first round, April 5th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

mate 

Black 

H. E. Bird. 

0. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— KB4 

P-§3 

2 KKt-B3 

3P— K3 

KKt— B3 

4 P— QKt 3 

B— Q3 

5B— Kt2 

0-0 

6Kt— B3 

P— B4 

7K1^K2 

Kt— K5 

8 Kt— Kt 3 
9P— Q3(o) 

lOKt— K5?(6) 

UPxP 

12KtxKt 

13 Q— B3? (c) 

14 K— Q sq. 
15BxP 

16 P— B4?? (d) 

QK1H-B3 
KKt— B3 
P-Q5! 
PxP 
PxKt 
Q— R4oh.! 
Kt— Q4 
BxKBP 
Q— Q7 mate. 

(a) A weak move which serionsly loosens his centre. 
(6) He had notlung better than P — Q4 now. 

(c) Suicidal, but his position was already very bad. If 12 Bx P, 12 B — Kt6 ch.; 
18 P— B8, 18 QxB, with a fine game. 

(d) Of course a disastrous blunder, but the game was irredeemable. If 16 P — B8, 
16 P— K4, and wins. Again if 16 Kt— K4, 16 P— KB4, and wins. 

426 

BIRD B GAKEa 

Game No. 359, 

Played in the second round. May 4tL. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

Wliite 

Black 

20 Q-Q sq. 

P-Q4 (</) 

21RPxP 

ORxP 

G. H: D. Gossii). 

11. E. Biiil. 

22PxBP 

KtxP 

IP Q4 

P— KB4 

23 B E3 

Kt— Kt6 

2P QB4 

KKt— B3 

24Bxll 

KtxR 

3 QKt— B3 

P-K3 

25QxKt 

P— KR4 (/.) 

4 P— K3 

P— B4 

26QxP 

R— Kt 2 

5Q— Kta 

B Kt5? 

27 Q B5 

R— QB2 

6P QE3 

B X Kt cb. 

2& B— Q6 

R— B sq. 

7PxB 

Kt^R3 

29 B K5 

P-R5 

8 Kt— B3 

P— QKt3 

30 Kt— K2 

P-R6 

9B K2 

O— 0 

31Kt— Kt3 

PxKtP 

10 0—0 

B— Kt2 

32 R QKtsq. 

Q B2 

11 Kt— K5 

P-Q3 

33 Kt— K2 

R— KB s(i. 

12 B B3 

Kt— K5 

34 B— Kt 3 

B— Ksq. 

13 Ki^Q3 

Q— Kt4 

35PxP 

PxP 

l4BxKt 

PxB 

36 Kt— Q4 

K— R2 

15 Kt B4 

Q— B4 

37 E Kt6 

B— Q2 

16 P QR4 

P— KKt4 

38 Q— Q6 

Q R4 

17 Kt— K2 

B B3 

39QxBcL 

R B2 

18Kt— Kt3 

Q Kt3 

40 Q— QR4, and 

wins. 

19 P— R5 

QR— Kt sq. 

(a) This mistake Ls cleverly showu up in Wliite's next three moves. P— Q3 was 
the right play. 

\h) Unaccountable. His only chance was dearly K x B. The opj>ODent now 
maintains his piece, and the struggle^ though somewhat prolougeil, is a one- 
sided one. 

Game No. 360. 
Played in tine first round, March 28th, 

SICIUAN DEFENCE. 

White 

Black 

3 Kt— B3 

P— KKt $ 

J. M. Hanham. 

H. E. Bird. 

4P— Q4 
5 KtxP 

PxP 
B Kt2 

IP— K4 

P— QB4 

6B" K3 

P-Q3 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

7B QB4(«) 

B— Q2 

BIBD 8 OAHES. 

427 

8 0—0 
9P— B4 
lOP— KR3? 

11 P— B5 

12 B— K2 
13PxP 
14B— QKt5 
15BxB 

16 Kt— B3 
17B— Q4(/>) 

18 B— B2 

19 Q— Q2 

20 B— K sq. 
21Q-Q3 
22Q— K2 
23 R— Kt sq. 
24BxP 

P— KR4 
Kt— B3 
P— R5 
Kt— K4 
R— QB sq. 
PxP 
K— B2 
QxB 
Ki^BS 
P— K4 
KtxKtP 
Q— B3 
Kt— B5 
Kt— Kt7 
K— Kt sq. 
Kt— B5 
Kt— Kt3 

25 B— Kt 3 

26 Kt— Q5 
27PxKt 
28B— B2 
29 Kt— Kt 5 
30Q— Kt4 

31 E— Q sq. 

32 R— Q2 (c) 

33 P— KR4 
34RxKtP 
35PxB 

36 R— Kt 3 

37 R— KB3 
38BxP 

39 K— B2 ((/) 
40K— Kt3 
41QxKt 

Kt— KR4 
KtxKt 
Q— B4 cb. 
QxQP 
Kt— B5 
R— KB sq. 
Q-B5 
E— R4 
B— R3 
BxKt 
P— Q4 
P-Q5 
QxRP 
Q— Kt 8 cb. 
R— R8 
Kt— R4 cb. 
R X Q, and wins. 

{(J) This Bishop is not well {tosted here in this opening. 

(<>) He does not recover from the loss of a Pawn to which he now exposes him- 
self. He .should have retreated B — B s<]. 

('■) A pretty po.sition. If U either R x P, 32 Kt— K7 ch. ; 33 K— B mj. I (or 33 K— 
It .sq. or — B3, 3-3 Q x Q, and wins), 33. . . Kt— Kt6 double ch. ; 34 K— K sq. !, 
.M Q X Q: 35 P X Q, 35 R— K8 ch., and wins. 

(d, His game is untenable whatever he may do. If 29 R — B sq., 28 Kt — B6 ch., 
and wins. 

Game No. 861. 

Played in tbe second round, April 21st 

/ 

/ 

IRREGULAR OPEXIXU. 

WhUe 
H. E. Bird. 

1 P— KB4 
2P— K3 
3KK1^R3 
4P— QKt3 
6B— K2 

Block 
J. M. Hanham. 

P-Q4 
p -jxo 

KKt— R3(a) 
P— KB3 
B-Q3 

6 Kt— B3 

7 B— R5 ch. 
8B— B3 
9B— Kt2 

lOO— O 

11 Q— K sq. 

12 P— QR4 

13 Q— K2 

P— QR3(6) 
P— Kt3 
Kt-B2 
Kt— Q2 
P— KR4(c) 
Q-K2 
R— R2 
P— QB3 

(a)Tlie unusual development of the KKt which both parties adopt is more 
favorable for Black who has good prosi)ect8 of forming a centre, commencing 
with P— KB8. 

(6) Much better was P— QB4 or Kt— B2. 

(fi) We see no positive object in this advance which loosens his K side. 

428 

14 P— R5 

15 PxP 
16BxQP(rf) 
I7KtxP 
18 Q— B4 
19B— R3 
20BxB(c) 
21 Kt— B7 cli. 
22QxR 
23QxQch. 

24 Kt— Kto 

25 P— Q3 
26P— Q4 
27KtxKt 
28 P— B4 
29B^R4 
30R— Kt4 

31 K— B2 

32 K— K sq. 

33 K— Q2 
34P— R4 
35R— B4 

36 K— B3 

37 K— Q2 
38P— Q5 

(d) A high-spirited sacrifice, based on fine position judgment. 

(«) By 20B— B6, 20 Q— Q2; 21 Kt— Kt6, 21Q— Qsq.; 22BxB, 22QxR; 2» 

B X Kt, he would have recovered his piece fully and kept two Pawns ahead. 
(/) R — B sq. was much better. 
(g) The culmination at this juncture of White's finely-conceive<l plan has beeu 

led up to with consumate skill. 
(A) Still more decisive was 47 R — R8 ch. first, for Black's Knight was then kept 

more inactive. 

BIBD8 

OAHE& 

P— K4 

39R— R4 

K— K2 

PxP 

40 K— B3 

R^B2 

PxB 

41 K— Q4 

K— B3 

Q K3 

42 R QKt4 

R^Q2 

Kt— B sq. 

43R— Kt6 

K— K2 

R-Kt2 

44P— B5 

Kt— Bsq. 

KtxB 

45RxB(gr) 

PxR 

RxKt 

46R— R6 

K Qsq. 

Q-K2 

47RxP(/0 

Kt— K2 

KxQ 

48P— Q6 

Kt— B3 ch. 

B B4 

49 K— Q5 

R^KB2 

P-K5(/) 

50 K— K6 

R^Bsq. 

Kt-K3 

51P— KKt3 

Kt— Q5 ch. 

KxKt 

52 K— K5 

KtxRP 

R-QB sq. 

53RxP 

Rr-K sq. ch 

R-B2 

64 K Q5 

KtxP 

K— K2 

55P— R5 

Kt— B3 

B K3 

56P— Kt4 

P— R4 

B— Bsq. 

57 P— R6 

P— R5 

B— K3 

58R— B7 

R^K4 ch. 

B B4 

59 K— B4 

Tl— K3 

K-Q2 

60 R^B8 ch. 

K-Q2 

Kt— Kt 4 ch. 

61 P-R7 

R-R3 

Kt— Q3 

62 P queens, and 

wins. 

R— B4 

Game No. 362. 

Played in the first round, April 15th. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

White 

Blnck 

N. MacLeod. 

H. E. Bird. 

IP— K4 
2P— QB3 
3K1^B3 

P— K4 
P-Q4 
PxP 

4 KtxP KKt— B3 

5 Q— R4 ch. B— Q2 (o) 
6Q— Kt3 B— K3 
7QxP B— Q3 
8QxR BxKt 
9B— Kt5ch. P— B3 

BIRD S OAJfE& 

429 

lOBxPch. 
llQxPch. 
12 P— B4 
13Q— Q4 
UQxQP 

15 B— K3 (b) 

16 0—0 

17 Q— B2 

18 P— KB4 

19 P— B4 

KtxB 
B— Q2 
Q— Kt sq. 
P X P en pass. 
0—0 
QxP 
QxB 
B— K3 
B— Kt sq. 
Kt— Kt5 

20 B— B5 
21BxR 

22 K— R sq. 

23 Q— Kt 3 

24 Q— KB3 

25 P— KR3 
26E^B2 

27 K«^B3 

28 Kt— Q sq. 
29R— K2 

Q-B3 

Q— Q5 ch. 

KxB 

B— Q3 

P— Kt3 

K«^K6 

KtxBP 

B— QB4 

B-Q4 

Q— Kt8mate. 

(a) An error which costs the exchange. 

(6) Black had a lost game but for this stroke of fortune which delivers a clear 
Rook into his hands. 

Game No. 368. 

Played in the second round, May 15th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White 

Bhck 

H. E. Bird. 

N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2P— KB4 

P— Q3 

3 P— QB3 

QKt B3 

4Kt— B3 

Kl^BS 

5B— Kt5 

B— Q2(a) 
P QR3(6) 

6P Q3 

7BxKt 

BxB 

8PxP 

PxP 

9KtxP 

KtxP(c) 

10 Q— K2 

Q R5ch. 

11 K— Q sq. 

0 0 0(rf) 

12 KtxB 

13 K— B2 
14P— KKt3 

15 R— B sq. 

16 P— Q4 
17K— Kt3 
18 Q— B4 
19PxB 
20 Kt— Q2 
21QRxKt 
22QxPch. 
23R— B4 
24K— R3 

K1^B7 ch. 
PxKt 
Q— B3 
B— B4 
Q— B4ch. 
Q— Q4 ch. 
Q— Kt7 
Kt— Q6 
KtxBch. 
QxKt(c) 
K— Kt sq. 
Q— Q4 ch. 
Resigns. 

(o)H 5...KtxP; 6Q— K2, 6Kl— B4!; 7PxP, 7B-K3!; 8 P— Q4, with the 

superior game. 
(6) Losing a Pawn. It was necessary now to capture the BP. 

(c) Not deep enough, though rather ingenious up to the point of its incorrectuesw. 

(d) It only amounted to a transposition of moves if he checked at once by Kt — 
B7, for he had then to guard against Kt x B disch. or Kt — Kt 6 disch. 

(e) The loser. He could at least prolong the struggle by 20. . . R x Kt; 21 QxP 
ch., 21 K— Kt sq. !; 22 K— R8, 22 P— Kt 4; etc. 

430 

BIBD 8 OAHES. 

Game No. 864. 

Played in the first rouud, March 30th. 
IRREGULAR OPENINCJ. 

\ 

Wlnfe 

1). M. JUiiitinez. 

1 P— KB4 

2 KKt— BB 
3P— K3 

4 P— Qli4 

5 P— QKt 3 
6Kt— B3 

7 QR— Kt so. 

8B— Kt2 

9P— Q4 
10 B— Q3 
IIP— QR3 
12QPxP 
13K<^Q5? 
14 Kt X BP 
15BxB(?*) 

16 B— Kt 2 

17 B— B2 

18 Q— Q5 ch. 
19QxP 
20O— O 

21 P— K4 

22 K— B sq. 
23B— Q3 
24 P— B5 
25RxKt 
26BxKP 

27 P— QKt 4 

28 B— Kt sq. 

29 B— R2 ch. 

llhii-k 
H. E. Bii-d. 

P— KB4 
P— K3 
B-K2(«) 
KKt^E3 
B-KB3 
0—0 
P-Q3 
B-Q2 
Q-K sq. 
Kt— B3 
P— K4 
PxP 
P— K5 
Q— Q sq. 
QxKt 
QR— Q sq. 
PxKt 
R— B2 
R— K sq. 
Kt— Kt5 
Q— Kt 3 ch. 
Kt— K6 
KtxR 
QxBP 
PxP 
KB— K2 
Q-Q3 
R-K8 {c) 
K— R sq. 

30BxPch. 
HI Q— Kt 3 ch. 

32 Q— B3 ch. 

33 Q— Kt 3 ch. 
34RxR 
35QxR 

36 B— K6 

37 Q X B ch. 

38 P— R3 

39 Q— Q7 ch. 
40Q— Kt4ch. 
41 Q— B8 cli. 
42Q— Kt4ch. 

43 Q— R5 ch. 

44 P— KKt 4 

45 Q^B5 ch. 
46K— Kt2 

47 P— KR4 

48 Q— KB2 

49 Q— Q2 ch. 

50 Q— R2 ch. 

51 Q— Q5 ch. 

52 Q— K4 

53 K— Kt 3 

54 Q— B4 
55P— Kt5 

56 Q— B8 ch. 

57 Q— Q8 ch. 

58 Q— R8 ch. 

59 K— Kt 2 (d) 

60 K— B sq. 

61 Resigns. 

KxB 
Q— Kt3 
Q-B3 
K— R3 
RxRch. 
QxP 
BxB 
K— Kt2 
Q-K4 
Q— K2 
K— R sq. 
K— Kt2 
K— B2 
K— K3 
K— Q2 
K— B2 
Kt— K4 
K— Q3 
P— Kt3 
K— K3 
K— Q2 
K— B2 I 
K— Q3 
P— KR3 
Q— K3 
P— E4 
K— Q4 
K— K5 
K— K6 
Q— Kt 5 ch. 
Q— K7 ch. 

(a) This Knight is not well placed here. 

(l>) An error. By taking the Rook he would have remained with Rook and two 

Pawns for two minor pieces with much better prospocts of making an even 

ftght. 
{(•) lllconsidere<l and allowing the opponent to prolong resistance by an 

ingenious combination. 
(d) At last White's brave and clever defence is without further resource. 

BIBD S OAKES. 

431 

Ganie No. 365. 

Played in the second round, April 2ith. 
ENGLISH OPENING. 

WInte 

Blm^c 

H. K. Bird. 

I). M. Martinez, 

IP QB4 

P— K4 

2 QK(H-B3 

QKt— B3 

3P— KKt3 

P— B4 

4B Kt2 

Kt B3 

5P— QJi3 

B— B4 (a) 

6 P— K3 

0—0 

7 KKt— K2 

R— Ksq. 

8P QKt4 

B Bsq. 

9Q-0 

P-Q3 

lOB— Kt2 

P— K6 

llKt^B4 

Kt^K4 

12 Q— K2 

P— KKt4 

13 KKfr-Q5 

KKt— Q2 

14 P— B3 

Kt-Q6 

15PxP(ft) 

QKt— K4 

16 Kt— Q sq. 

KtxB 

17KtxKt 

PxP 

18Kt-B6ch. 

K— R sq. 

19 Q R5(c) 

Rr-K2 

20BxP 

P— KR3 

21 P Qi 

Kt— Q2 

22 Q Kt6 

KtxKt 

23 Q X Kt ch. 

B— Kt2 

24 Q Kt6 

Q— Kt sq. 

25 R B2 

P-B3 

26 QR— KB sq. 

B R6(rf) 

27 B— Kt 2 

BxB 

28KxB 

RxP 

29 R— B3 

R K7ch. 

30 QR^B2 
31QxQP 
32 Kt— Q3 
33RxR 
34Kt^B2 

35 Q-Q7 

36 Q— B8 cb. 

37 Q— B5 ch, 

38 K— R3 (e) 
39R— Q3 
40QxQ 
41Rr-Q6 
42 Kt— Kt4 
43KtxP 

44 Kt— B5 ch. 

45 Rr-Q7 ch. 

46 Kt— R6 

47 RxP 
48R— QB7 
49R— QR7 
50K— Kt2 
51 Kt— B7 
52RxPch. 
53R^R7 
54K— R3 

55 Kt— Q8 

56 K— Kt4 

57 R— R6 ch. 

58 Kt-B7 ch. 

59 P— R3 

60 R— R4 ch. 

61 KtxP(j/) 

QRr-K sq. 
Q— R2 
Q-K5 
QxRch. 
QxP 
R-K8 
K— R2 
K— R sq. 
QxQP 
Q-B3 
BxQ 
K— Kt2 
B— Kt7 
BxP 
K— B2 
K— B3 
BxP 
P— R4 
R^-QB8 
R— B5 
K— Kt3 
K-B4(/) 
K— B3 
R— B7 ch. 
P— B4 
P— B5 
B-Q7 
K— K4 
K-Q5 
P— B6 
K— B4 
K— Kt4(/0 

(a) B— K2 was better. 

(6) Black must have overlooked that after this fine move White will recover the 
piece in case of 15 . . . Kt x B; by 16 P— Q4. 

(c) As usual, the simplest was the best, and he should have captured the Rook. 

(d) Black sees through the adverse trap. If 26. . .B— K3; 27 Q— Bi), 27 R— B3; 
28 Q X B, 28 B X Q; 29 R X B, with a winning attack. 

(e) It was very imprudent to play for more than a draw in this position. 
(/) Overlooking the loss of a Pawn by Black's clever reply. 

{g) Fatal infatuation. Kt— K5 would have still drawn, and he couhl e.Npect no 
ittore. ■ 

432 

POLLOCK B GAMES. 

62R-R8 

R— Kt7 

71 K— K6 

R— Kt3cL 

63 Kt— B3 

I^-Kt5ch.! 

72 K— B5 

K— Qsq. 

64K— B5 

P— B7 

73P— Kt4 

B^Kt4 

65R-Kt8ch. 

K— R3 

74 K— K6 

K— K sq. 

66R— QB8 

P queens 

75Kt— Kt6 

E^KKt4 

67ExQ 

BxR 

76 Kt— K5 

B— Kt7 

68P— »4 

K— Kt2 

77 Kt— B4 

B Kt2 

69 P— R5 

K— B sq. 

78 Kt— Q6 ch. 

K— Bsq. 

70 K«^K5 

E^Kt4 

79 Besigus. 

(/OA very beautiful diKplay of ending game ingenuity conimenceK here and is 
continued to the finish. 

Game Xo. 806. 

Played in the first round, April IStli. 

SICILIAN DEFKNCE. 

White 

J. TaubenhauB. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3P— Q4 
4KtxP 

6 QKi^BS 
6QB— Kt5 

7 0—0 
8P— B3 

9 QKt— K2 
10 P— B3 
IIB— K3 
12P— KR3? 
ISBxBch. 
14 P— KB4? 
16Q— Q3 

16 Q— B2 

17 B— B2 

18 QEr— Q sq. 

19 KR— K sq. 
20K1^B3 

21 QKt— Q4 

22 Kt— K2 
23P— B4? 
24PxP 
25 Kt— R2 

Black 

H. E. Bird. 

P— QB4 
QKt— B3 
PxP 
P— Q3 
Ki^B3 
B-Q2 
P— KR4 
P— KKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— R5 
Kt— K4 
P— R3 
QxB 
Kt— B5 
KtxKtP 
Kt-B5 
QR— B sq. 
Q— B2 
Ki^Q2 
B— B3 
P— K4 
P— QKt4 
PxRP 
PxP 
B— K2 

26Kt— Kt4 
27R^Q3 
28R-Q5 
29 Kt— B sq. 
30R— Q3 
31 R— B sq. 
32QxR 

33 K— R sq. 

34 R— K sq. 

35 Q— B2 

36 Kt— QR2 
37Kt;-Kt4 
38Kt— Q5 
39Kt(Kt4)— K3 
40KtxB 

41 Kt— Q5 ch. 

42QxP 

43Q— R3 

44P— B4 

45BxP 

46P— B5 

47Ki^Kt4 

48QxP 

49 Q— Kt 3 oh. 

50QxQch. 

51 R— KB sq. 

52 Kt— Q5 
63 R— QB sq. 

P— R6 
Q-B3 
P— B3 
KKt— Kt 3 
R-Q sq. (rt) 
RxR 
Kt— Q2 
Ki^Q3 
Q— B5 
Kt— Kt4 
Kt— Q3 
P— R4 
P— R7 
|-B3(fc) 
xKt 
K— B2 
Q— B5 
Q— B3 
R— K sq. 
P— R5 
Kt— Kt2 
QxBP 
Kt— Kt3 
Q— B5 
KtxQ 
R— K3 
Kt-Q7 
Kt— Q3 

BIBD 8 OAHB8. 

* 

433 

54 E— B7 cli. 
5oBxP 

56 B— K7 ch. 

57 B X Kt 

K— B sq. 
Kt(Q7)xP 
K— Kt sq. 
KtxB 

58 R— B6 K— B2 

59K— Ktsq. (c) Kt— K sq. 
And the game was finally drawn. 

(a) Q— B3, followed soon by Q — Kt4, was superior. 

<6) 39. . .Qx.KP; 40 Qx P, 40 K — <j sq., wonld have maintained hiJi advantage in 

niateriui, with a g<x>d game. 
(':) White tuis made an excellent light, considering tliat he was at one time two 

Pawns to the bad. 

(iame No. 367. 

Played in the second round. May 14th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

ir/nte 
H. E. Bird. 

1 P— KB4 

2 KKt— B3 
3P— K3 

4 B— K2 

5 0—0 
6P— QKt3 
7B— Kt2 
8 Kt— B3 
9B— Q3 

10 Q— K2 
llKi^Kt5 
12BxKt 
13Q— Kt4 
14 Kt— K6 (rt) 
15QxPch. 

Bhwk 
J. Taubenhaus. 

P— QKt3 
B— Kt2 
P— K3 
P-Q4 
B-Q3 
Kt— K2 
0—0 
P— QR3 
Ki^Q2 
Kt— Kt3 
P— K4 
BPxB 
B— K2 
PxKt 
K— R2 

16PxP 

17 Q— R3 ch. 

18 P— Q4 
19Q— Kt3 
20QxP 
21RxRch. 

22 R— KB sq. 

23 P— K4 
24PxP 
25RxB 

26 Kt— K4 (c) 

27 Kt— B6 ch. 

28 P— KKt 3 
29Kt— Kt4 
30 Kt— B2 
31KxB 

32 K— B3 

33 Resigns. 

K«^B4(6) 
K— Kt sq. 
B— Bsq. 
Kt— K3 
P— B3 
BxR 

1— K2 

txP 
B— B4 
KtxR 
Q-R6 
K— Rsq. 
Q— R6 
B— B4 ch. 
BxKtch. 
QxRPch. 
Rn-KB sq. 

(a) An unsound sacrifice. The two Pawns for the piece are no match, especially 

in White's undeveloped state. 
(6) More plain, hut better was R x R ch., followed by Kt— KB sq. 
(c) He probably overlooked Black's powerful defence, for otherwise it was clear 

that Q X Kt gave him more hope of a good fight. 

TAUBENHAUS' GAMES. 

Game No. 36S. 

Played in ihe first round, April 2d. 

VIENNA OPENIN(}. 

White 

Black 

\ 

J. Taul>enhaus. 

D. G. Baird 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

B— B4 

3 P— KB4 

P Q3 

4 KKt— B3 

QKt-B3 

5B Kt5 

KKt— B3 

6P Q3 

0—0 

7 P— B5? 

P-Q4 

8BxKt 

PxB 

9Q— K2 

PxP 

lOPxP 

P-QR4 

llKt— Kt5(a) 

B— QR3 

12 Q B3 

Q-Q5 

13 Kt-Q aq. 

P— KR3 

14B— K3 

Q B5 

15BxB 

QxB 

16 K<^I13 

QxP 

17 KKt— B2 

KR— Q sq. 

18 Q K3 

R^Q5 

19 QE^B sq. 

Q-R5 

20 Kt— B3 

Q Kt5 

21R— B2 

QR-Q sq. 

22 P— Kt4 

KtxKP! 

23KtxKt 

R^Q8 ch. 

24K— B2 

RxR 

25K— Kt2 

R QR8 

26 P— B6 

Q-Q5 

27 Q— B2 

B— Q6 

28 Q— B5 

R— Kt8ck 

29K— R3 

Q— K6 ch. (b) 

30 K— R4 

P— Kt4ch. 

31KtxP 

BxQ 

32 Resigns. 

{a) If 11 Kt X P, 11 R- K sij. ; 12 Kt— Q3 !, 12 B— Q5; 13 P— K5, 13 QB x P, with a 

fine attack. r 

(b) Black finishes off with vigorous precision, whicli is quite in harmony with his 

excellent play throughout this game. 

TAUBEMHAUS OAHES. 

435 

Game No. 869. 

Played in the secoud round, April 27tli. 

RUY U)PEZ. 

lihick 

ch. 

White 
I>. (}. Bainl. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3 B— Kt 5 

4 0— O 
5P-Q4 
6B— R4 
7KtxP(o) 
8PxKt 
9 B— Kt 3 

lORPxKt 

11 P X P en pass. 

12 Q— B3 

13 B— KKt 5 

14 KB— K sq. cli. 

15 Q— Q5 ch. 

16 B— R4 (d) 
17RxR 

18 Kt— B3 

19 P— KKt4? 
20Q— Kt2 
(«)New, but not advisable. 

(ft)If 7...PxB; SKtxKt, 8PxKt; 9 It— K sq.. followed bj- P— KB3, etc. 
(c) But here Black could have obtained the advautagc by 8. . .B -B4, threatening 

Q— R5. 
Ui) B— Q3 wa.s better. 
(e) Some repetition moves followed with alternations on Black'.s part in moving 

the King. 

J. Taubenhaus. 

P— K4 
QKt^B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
P— QR3 
P— QKt4 
KtxKt!(fc) 
Kt— B4 (c) 
KtxB 
P— Q4 
BxP 
B-Q2 
P— KB3 
K— B2 
K— Kt3 
R— K sq. 
QxR 
R— Qsq. 
BxP 
K-R4 

21P— R3? 
22QxP 
23QxQ 
24B— Kt3 
25PxB 

26 K— B2 

27 Kt— Q5 

28 R— Kt sq. 

29 Kt X QBP 

30 K— K3 

31 Kt— K6 ch. 

32 Kt— Q4 

33 Kt— B6 ch. 

34 Kt-Q4 (e) 

35 P— B3 

36 R— QR sq. 
37RxP 

38 K— Q3 

39 KtxB 

40 P— Kt 4 

41 R^KR6 

42 Resigns. 

B— QB sq. 
Q— Kt sq. 
R X Q ch. 
BxB 
RxPch. 
RxP 
K— Kt4 
B— Kt5 
R— R7 ch. 
P— B4 
K— B3 
K— K4 
K— Q3 
K— Q4 
RxP 
K— K4 
P— B4 ch. 
B— B4 ch. 
KxKt 
P— B6 
P— B7 

Game No. 370. 
Played in the first round, March 27th. 

White 

J. W. Baii-d. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 

RUY LOPEZ. 

Black 

J. Taubenhaus 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 

3 B— Kt 5 
4B— R4 
5 0-0 
6BxKtch. 

P— QR3 
B— B4 
. P— Q3? 
PxB 

436 

TAlTBElIHAUft GAMES. 

7P— Q4 

PxP 

8KtxP 

Kt— K2 

9B— Kt5 

P— B3? 

lOB— K3 

0—0 

11 QKt— B3 

Q-K sq. 

12 Q Q2 

Kt— Kt3 

13 KB Ksq. 

K«^K4 

UP— QKt 3 

Q— Kt3 

15 K— K sq. 

B— QKt 5 

16 P— B3 

P QB4 

17 KKt— K2 

P— B4 

18 Kt B4 

Q— B2 

19 Kt Q3 

KtxKt 

20PxKt 

P— B3 

21 Q Kt2 

P— KB5 

22B— Q2 

Q-ii4 

23 Kt— K2 

P— Kt4 

24BxB 

PxB 

25 Q— Q4 

P— Kt5 

26 Q— B4 cb. («) 

P Q4! 

27PxQP 

P— Kt6 

28PxPdi8ch. 

R— B2 

29 K— Kt sq. ! 

QxPch. 

30 K— B sq. 

B— R6 

31KtxBP 

BxPch. 

32KtxB 

Q— R8 ch. 

33 K— K2 

QxKtch. 

34 K— Q sq. 

35 K— Q2 

36 QR— B sq. 
37QxQ(/.) 

38 R— K3 (c) 

39 R— KKtsq. 
40RxP 

41 R X R cb. 

42 11— B3 

43 K— K3 

44 K— Q4 

45 R— B5 (e) 

46 R— QKt 5 

47 K— K5 

48 P— Q4 
49R— Kt8 

50 R— KR8 

51 P— (i5 

52 P— QG 

53 K— B4 

54 P— Q7 
56RxP 

56 R— QB2 

57 R— B6 cb. 

58 K— K4 

59 K— Q4 

60 Resigns. 

{''} 

Q X P cb. 
R— QB sq. 
Q— B5 cb. 
RxQ 
R— Kt5 
RxBP 
RxR 
R— KKt 3 
R— Kt7cb. 
RxP 
P-QR4 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt3 
P— Rl 
P— KR5 
P— R6 
P— R7 
P— Rr> 
R— K7 cb. 
P-R6(/) 
R-Q7 
RxP 
R— Q6 
K— B2 
RxP 
P— R7 

(tt) White has out-inanoeuvrc(5 his opponent, aud lie hail only to protet't the 
K wing by Kt— Kt sq. in order to maintain his suiKsriority, for h*> wjus botinal 
to win a Pawn on the other .sidi.-. 

(b) R — K3 was much superior. 

(c) R — K4 would have easily secureil a dvaw. 

(d) His position becomes bad after*this. K — Iv2 was better. 

(«) Weak. Even now he conld make a fair fight for a draw by 46 K- 
46. . R— B7 ch.; 47 K— Kt.5, 47 R— B6; 48 K— R4, etc. 

(/) Black's end play is remarkably fine and accurate. 

K4. ami if 

TAUBENHAUS GAMES. 

437 

Game No. 871. 

Played in the second round, April 20th. 

V^IENNA OPENING. 

IVInte 

Bhick 

J. TaulxjnhauH. 

J. W. Bainl. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

B B4 

3P-B4 

P Q3 

4Kt-B3 

KKt-B3 

5B B4 

0—0 

6P Q3 

P— 133 

7PxP 

PxP 

8Q K2 

QKt— Q2 

9B Q2 

P— KR3 

10 Kt^Q sq. 

R— Ksq. 

11 Kt— K3 

Kt— B sq. 

12 P— QB3 

Kt-Kt3 

13P— KKt3 

B— K3 

14BxB 

RxB 

15 Kt— B5 

Q-Q2 

16 0—0—0 

B— B sq. 

17 KBr-B sq. (a) 

P— B4 

18 K— Kt sq. 
19P— Kt3? 

R— r;^ 

R^KtS 

20 Kt K3 

P— QR4 

21 Kt— B4 

R— K3 

22 Kt— Kt 2 

Kt K2 

23 Kt— KR4 

Kt B sq. 
Kt— KR2 

24P-KKt4 

25 Kt-B5 

P— QKt4 

26P— KR4 

Kt— Kt 3 

27P— Kt5 

P— R5 

28PxQRP? 

KtxQRP 

29KtxKt 
30B— K3 
31R— Q2 

32 P X KtP 

33 R— Kt 2 

34 R— QB sq. 
35R— B4 
SBPxKtP 

37 K— B2 

38 B— B sq. 
39KxR 
40PxP 
41QxQ 
42KxB 

43 R— B8 ch. 
4.1Rr-K8 

45 K— B3 

46 K— Q2 
47R— B8 

48 K— B3 

49 K— B4 

50 K— Q5 

51 R- -B7 ch, 
52R^K7 

53 Kt— R6 cL. 
54R— K6 
65KxR 

56 Kt— B5 ch. 

57 K— K7 

58 P X Kt 

59 K— K6 

RxKt 
KR— R3 
P— Kt5 
PxQKtP 
Q— Kt4 
R— R6 
P— Kt6! 
IV-m, ch. 
B— R6 
RxBch.(.'>) 
QxKtP 
QxRch. (c) 
BxQch. 
PxP 
Kt— B sq. 
R— Kt 3 ch. 
R— B3 ch. 
R— K3 
P— R4? 
P— B3 

Rr-R3 

K— B2 
K— Kt sq, 
Kt— R2 
K— R sq. 
RxR? 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt3 
Kt— Kt4 
PxP 
P— Kt5 

/ 

{a) As Black's pieces were all crowded on the K side, the formation of an nttack 
with the Pawns on that wing, commencing with P — KR4, and folhiwed by 
Kt — R2, was a more promising plan. 

(6) Black's attack Inis l>een beautifully pursued, but he could have made liis win 
more c^lear now by P x P first. 

(f?) The tc^mpting 40. . .Q—H7 would have failed on account of 41 H— B8ch., 41 
Kt-Bsq.; 42 P— R7 ch., 42 K x P (or 42. . .K- R sq.; 4:jRxKtch., and 
wins); 48 Q— Rr> ch.. 43 R— RJJ ! (if 43 K— Kt s<j., 43 Kt-K7 ch., and wins); 
44 Kt X R, etc. 

438 

TAUBENHAUS GAMES. 

60KxP 
61P— Q4 

K— Kt4 
P— R5 

62KtxP,and wins, (f/) 

id) White's play, after tlie opponent's grave error on the fifty-fourth move, 
and especially the present coup de grhce. praises itself. It will be seen that 
Black can capture the Knight and ll.en quetn fiist, but ^Miile quti-ns 
with a check and then forces the exchange of Queens bv (j — KR8 cli., 
followed by Q— KKt S ch. 

Game No. 873. 

Played in the first round, April 15th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
C;. F. Burille. 

1P^K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3 B— Kt 5 
4B— E4 

5 0—0 

6 B— K sq. 
7BxKt 
8KtxP 

9 QKt— B3 

10 P— Q3 

11 Kt— B4 
12KtxB 

13 P— Q4 

14 Kt— K2 

15 P— KB4 

Black 
il. Taubenhaus 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
Kt— B4 
QPxB 
B— K2 
0-0 
B— Q3fa) 
Kt— K3 
PxKt 
P-Q4 
Q— 115 
B-Q2 

16 B— K3 

17 Q— Q2 
ISKt— Kt3 

19 P— QB3 

20 B— B2 

21 E— K5 

22 Kt— B sq. 

23 QR— K sq. 
24RxRch. 

25 R X R ch. 

26 Q— K3 

27 Kt— Q2 

28 Q— K5 
29BPxQ 
30 Kt— B3 

Black here 
limit and lost 

KR— K sq. 

P— KKt3 

Q-B3 

Kt— Kt2 

P— KR4 

P— Ro? 

Kt— B4 

Kt— Q3 

RxR 

BxR 

B-Q2 

Kt— B4 

QxQ 

K— Kt2 

K- B sq. 
exceeded the time 
h\ forfeit. (//) 

(a) The better plan was Kt— K3, with the view of entering with tlie s^jinie Knigiit 
at Q5 before or after advancing P — QB4 accoi-dingly. 

(b) The weakness of Black's twenty-first move revenges itself now, and he must 
lose a Pawn which virtually means the game, even if it had been played out. 

TAUBENHAU8 GAMES. 

439 

Game No. 373. 

Played in the second round, May 15tli. 

CENTRE GAMBIT. 

W/nie 

Bliick 

J. Taubenhaus. 

C. F. Burille, 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2P Q4 

PxP 

3QxP 

QKt B3 

4Q— K3 

P-Q3 

5QKt B3 

P— KKt3 

6B Q2 

B Kt2 

7 0—0—0 

Kt-B3 

8P— B4? 

0 0 

9B K2 

B Esq. 

10 B B3 

P-Q4! 

11 B— K sq. 

P— Q5 

12 Q K2 

B— K3 

13 P— K5 

Kt-Q4 

UKtxKt 

BxKt 

16P— B3? 

BxBP 

16BxKt 

PxB 

17RxP 
18 Ki^B3 
19P— B4? 
20 Q— QB2 
21Q— »4 
22QxBP 

23 PxP? 

24 B— Q2 
25Q— E4 
26 P— B5 
27B— R5 

28 K— Q sq. (c) 
29QxR . 

30 K— K2 

31 K— Q sq. (e) 

32 K— K2 

33 K— B2 

Q— K2 
B-Q4 
B— K3 
B— B4 
P— B3! 
PxP 

QR— Ktsq. 
R— Kt3 
Q-K3 

Rr-R3 

B— R3 ch. ! 
RxB?(d) 
Q— Kt 6 ch. 
Q— K6 ch. 
Q— B8 ch. 
QxR 
Q-QB8, 

and wins. 

(«) 

(b) 

(a) Black^s formation of the attack, after the several weak moves of the 
opponent) has been admirable, and a deep as well as tine combination is 
here initiated. If, for instance, White answer 24 B — R5 in order to prevent 
the advei-se attack by R— Kt 3, then might follow 24. . .B— R3 ch. ; 25 Kt— Q2, 
25 Q— QR6; 26 Px(i, 26 R— Kt8 mate. 

(6) Again a fine conception with a beautiful sacrifice of the Queen in two varia- 
tions that were likely to happen in its train. 

(C) For if 28 Kt— Q2, 28 Q x P; 29 Q— B4 ch. (or 29 R— QB4, 29 R x B; 30 QxR, 
30 Q— K8 ch. ; 31 R x Q, 31 R x R mate), 29 . . . K— R sq. ; 30 Q x R, 30 Q— K8 
ch., and mates next move. 

{d) B— K6 would have won in a simple manner, but more surely. 

(e) A blunder, for after 31 K — B sq., 31 B— Q6 ch. (there seems nothing better); 
32 R X B, 32 Q X R ch ; 33 K— B2, Black lias hardly more than a draw. 

440 

TAUBENHAUS GAMES. 

Game No. 374. 

Played in the first round, March 28th. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

jyjrife 

nuwk 

J. THul>enhuus. <i. H. D. Uos-sip. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4P— B3 
5P-Q4 
6 0—0 
7P— Q5 

8 B - Q3 

9 P— KR3 ? 

10 Q— Kt3 

11 B— K3 

12 QKt— Q2 
18 Q— B2 

14 KB^K sq. 

15 Kt— B sq. 
16PxP 
17BxP 
18Ki^Kt3?(A) 
19PxB 
20K— Kt2 

21 B— K3 

22 E^R sq. 
2311— R3 
24BxKt 
25RxBch.(c) 
26 R— KB sq. 
27KxQ 
28PxP 

29 P— KKt 4(d) 

30 B— K2 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P-Q3 
B-Q2 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 
QKt— Kt sq. 
0-0 
Kt— K s(i. 
B— B sq. (a) 
K— R sq. 
P-QKt3 
P— KR3 
P— KKt4 
P— Kt5? 
BxP 
R— Kt sq. 
BxKt 
B— R5 
R^Kt3 
Kt^Kt2 
Kt— R4 
Kt— B5 ch. ? 
PxB 
QxR 
QxRch. 
PxKt 
Kt— Q2 
K1^K4 
K— Kt2 

31K— Kt2 
32K— Kt3? 
33 Q— R4 
34QxP 
35 Q— R6 
36P— Kt4 

37 K— B2 

38 K— K3 
39P— R4 

40 Q— Kt 5 

41 P— KB4 

42 QxR 

43 K— Q3 
44KxR 

45 P— R5 

46 P— R6 

47 P— R7 
48K— Q3 

49 K— Q4 

50 P— K5 

51 P— K6 ch. 

52 K— K4 

53 P— K7 (p) 
54K— B5 
55P— Kt5 

56 P— Kt 6 ch. ? 
57P— Kt7 
58 P queens ch. 
59KxP 

60 K— K6 

61 P— B5 

Drawn. 

R— KRsq. ■ 
KR— R3 
R— R8 
QR— R7 
Kt— Kt3 
R— R6 ch. 
QR— R7 ch. 
R— K8 
Kt— K4 
P— KB3 
R(R7)xBch. 
Kt— B5 ch. 
RxQ 
Kt— Kt7 
P— Kt4! 
K1^B5 
Ki^KtS 
K— B2 
K— K2 
K— B2! 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt3 
K— B2 
KxP 

K— B2?(/-) 
K— K2 ■ 
K— B2 
KxQ 
K— B sq. 
K— K sq. 
K— B sq. 

(a) Q — B sq. instead, would have gained time and position, as he could soon 

after advance P — KB4. 
(6) Either Kt — R8 was evidently better. 
(e) The Queen ought to be better than the two Rooks in this position, but still 

stronger was 25 QR— R sq., 35 P x Kt ! (if 25. . .R— R8; 2« Kt— B5. and wins); 

26 R X B ch. , 26 K— Kt 2: 27 P— K5, and wins. 
(rf)39Q— R3ch., 29K— Kt2; 80 K— Kt>e, 30 R— KRsq.; 81Q— Ktsq., would 

have neutralized the two Rooks and kept the advantage of two Pawns that 

should have won in the end without trouble. 

TAUBENHAU8 OAXES. 

441 

(«) Mr. Taulwnhaus is generally very accurate as well as ingenious in his end 
piny, but he overlooks here a clear win by manoeuvring his King round to 
KK4 via KB3, after which he could advance P— B6, and then form two 
passed Pawns by P — Kt 5. The text move is the result of a miscalculation. 

(/) Which might have cost him the game if the opponent had simply captured 
the Pawn, whereas P x P now woidd have drawn. 

Game No. 875. 

Played in the second round, April 22d. 
STEINITZ GAMBIT. 

tt'Mte 

Black 

G. H. D. Gossip. J. Taubenhaus. 

IP— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

3P— B4 

4P-Q4 

5K— K2 

6 Kt— B3 

7BxP 

8KxB 

9 B— QKt 5 (a) 
lOBxKt 
UQ— KBsq. 
12Q— R6cL 
13 P— KR8 
14B— Kt3(6) 
15 K— K3 
16KtxKt 
17Q— Q3 

P— K4 
QKi^BS 
PxP 
Q— R5 ck 
P-Q3 
B— Kt5 
BxKtch. 
0—0—0 
Kt— B8 
PxB 
R— Ksq. 
K— Q2 
P— Kt4! 
Q— R4 ch. 
KtxP! 
Q— Kt3 
P— KB4 

18 QR— K sq. 

19 P— B3 
20B— K5 
21 Q— K2 
22Q— Kt4ch. 
23PxB 
24PxQ 
25K— Q4 

26 B^R6 ch. 
27RxRch. 

28 K— B5 

29 P— B4 

30 R— Q sq. 
31KxP 
32KxBP 

33 P— B5 

34 P— B6 

35 R— K sq. 

36 K— Kt 7 

B— Kt2 

P-Q4 

BPxKt 

BxB 

Q— K3 (c) 

QxQ 

RxP 

K-Q3 

R^K3 

KxR 

R— KB sq. 

K— K4 

R— Q sq. 

P-Q5 

R— KB sq. 

P— K6 

P— K7 

P-Q6 

K-Q6, 

and wins. 

a) We prefer 9B — Kt8, and if 9...Q — B8ch.; lOK — K8, lOP— KKtS; 

11 QB— KB4. 
(6) White had already a bad game. If 14 P— KKt 8, 14 Q— R4 ch. ; 15 P— Kt 4, 

15 Q— Kt 8, etc. 
(c) As the exchange of Queens is now forced, Black wins in the ending with the 

majority of Pawns, though the opponent makes a clever resistance. 

442 

TAUBENHAUS' GAMES. 

(iaiiie Xo. !i76. 

Played in the first round, April 3d. 

KIXU'S BISHOP ()I'f:XIN\{. 

IVIiite 

IP— K4 
2B— B4 

3 P— QJJ 

4 KKt— B3 
5P— B3 

6 0— O 

7 QKt— Q2 
8B— Kt5 
9Kt— Ksq-?!") 

10 Kt (Q2)— B3 

11 B— R4 

12 B— B2 
13Q— K2 

14 B— Q2 

15 R— Q sq. 
16P— KR3? 
17 P— Q4 
ISKtxP 
19QxKt 

20 B X KP 

21 B— B2 {<■) 

22 P— KB4 

23 P— KKt 3 

24 Kt— Q3 

25 QR— K sq. 

26 Er-B2 
27RxRch. 
28Kt— Kt4 
29KtxB 
30 Kt— K3 
31Q— Kt4 
32 R— K2 
33QxQ 

34 K— B2 
35PxB 

36 K— BS 

37 K X Kt 

38 K— B3 

39 Kt— B4 

40 Kt— Q6 
41P— R4 

Mack 

42 Kt— K4 

K— B2 

43 B K3 

P QKt 4? 

J. TauUMibims. 

44 P— Kt 4 1 

R -Q4 

P— K4 

45 B— B4 

K— K3 

KKt-B3 

46 Kt— B5 cli. 

K— B4 

B— B4 

47 Kt— K4 

R Q2 

Kt— B3 

48 Kt— Kt 3 ch. 

K— K3 

0-0 

49 Kt— K4 

R— KB2 

P— Q3 

50 K— K3 

K-Q4 

B— K3 

51 K Q3 

P— KB4? 

Kt— K2 

52Kt— Kt5 

R— K2 

Kt— Kt3 

53 B K3 

P— (iR4 

P— B3 

54PxP 

R— QR2 

B— Kt3 

55 Kt-R3 

RxP 

P-Q4 

56 Kt B4cli. 

K— Q3 

B B2 

57KtxKtP 

R R6 

P— KR3 

58 B R6 ! 

R R2 

Q K2 

59 Kt— B4 (rf) 

R KR2 

Kt— R4 

60 B— B8 ch. 

K-Q2 

FxKP{h) 

61 K— K3 . 

K— K sq. 

BxKt 

62 B— Q6 

^-^l 

B— B2 

63 B K5 

K— K2 

BxQRP 

64 Kt— Q3 

K— K3 

B Q4 

65 Kt— B4 ch. 

K— B2 

Q B3 

66 K— B3 

R R3 

KR— K sq. 

67 Kt Kt2 

K-K3 

B— K5 

68 B— B4 

R R2 

B— B4 

69B— Kt5 

K— B2 

QR-Q s<,. 

70 Kt— B4 

5-5o"i- 

RxR 

71 K-K3 

R— R2 

BxB 

72 K— Q3 

K— K sq. 

Kt— B sq. ' 

73 K— ]i2 

K— Q2 

Kt Q2? 

74K— Kt3 

K Q3 

Kt— B sq. 

75K— Kt4 

R— R sq. 

Q-Kt3 

76 B B6 

li^R2 

KtxQ 

77 B— K5 ch. 

K-Q2 

BxP! 

78 K— Bo 

R^R3 

KtxP 

79 P Q5! 

PxP 

KtxR 

SOKxKtP 

R— QB3 

P— KKt3 . 

81KtxQP 

R K3 

P— KR4 

82 B— B4 

R— KKt3 

P— B3 

83 B— Kt 5 

K— Q3 

R-K2 

84 Kt— B4 

R— Kt sq. 

R Q2 

85 Kt X P, and wina (e) 

TAUBENHATTS GAMES. 

443 

(a) P— Q4 WRS nuK-h superior. 

(6) He could have institute<l a stronger attack by KKt — B5 first. 

(n If 31 B X Kt, 21 P X B; 32 Q X KtP. 23 B-BS; 38 B x P, 23 Q— B3, and wins. 

(fi) B — B8 cli. first was mucli better. 

(«•» Wliite ba.s played tlie greater jiart of the ending with marlied ability. 
Especially the play of the King from the seventy-third move was very finely 
couceive<l. The game was prolonged to the one-hundred-and-first move, but 
White naturally won with his pa.ssed Pawn.s. 

Game No. 377, 

Played in the second round, April 29tli. 

VIENNA OPEXINO. 

White 
J. Taubenhau.s 

IP— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

3 Kt— B3 
4B— B4 
6P— Q3 

6 B— KKt 5 

7 Kt— K2 
8B— K3 
9 P— KR3 

10 Kt— Kt 3 
llPxP? 
12B— Kt3 

13 Q— K2 

14 Kt— B sq. 

15 0—0—0? 

16 P— B3 

17 B— B2 
ISPxP 
19PxP 
20KtxKt 
21B— Q4 
22 P— B4 
23QxQ 
24 B— K5 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
KKt— B3 
B— Kt3 
P— B3 
P— KR3 
B— B2 
Q-K2 
P-Q4 
PxP 
Kt— B3 
B— K3 
Kt— Q2 
P— QR4 
P^R5 
P-Q5! 
BxQRP 
KKtxP(a) 
Kt X Kt 
0-0 
Kt— B3 
KtxQ 
KR— QB sq. 

25 Kt-K3 
26BxB 

27 K— Q2 

28 B— Kt sq. 

29 K— QB sq. 

30 Kt— B5 ! 

31 Kt— Q6 

32 11— B5 

33 KR— QB sq, 

34 P— Q4 
H5Kt— B8? 
36 K— K3 
37RxKt 
38B— K4?(() 
39PxP 

40 Kt— Q6 

41 R— R6 

42 P— B5 
43KtxP 
44K— B3 
45Kt— Q6 

46 R— R8 ch. 

47 Kt— B5 ch. 

48 Ki^Kt 3 
49R— R7 
50B— Q5 
51BxR 

P— QKt4 
RxB 
Kt— B3 
B— Kt6?(6) 
QR— QB sq. 
K— B sq. 
R— Kt sq. 
P— Kt5 
R— Kt3 
R-Q2 
RxPch. 
R— Kt sq. 
R-Qsq. 
P— R6 
PxP 
P— R7 
P— Kt3 
PxP 
R— Ksq. 
R— Kt5 

Rr-K3 

K— K2 
K— B3 
B— B5 
B— R3 
R^R5 ! 
PxB 

(a) Much stronger was Kt — B4. 

(6) B X B, followed by Kt — Q5, would have secured possesssion of the open file, 

with an excellent game, 
(c) Kt — Kt 6, with the view of playing soon B — B3, would have gained valuable 

time. 

444 

TAX3ENHAU8 GAMES. 

52 R^R sq. 

B K7ch. 

59K— Kt2 

P— K5 

53KtxB 

RxR 

60 K— R2 

P— R4 

54 Kt— B sq. (d) 

R-QB2 

61K— Kt2 

P— K5 

55KtxP 

R— QR2 

62P— Kt4 

R— Kt 6 ch. 

56 K— K3 

K— Kt4 

63 K— R2 

R— R6 

57P— Kt3 

R— R6 cb. 

64K— Kt2 

R— Kt6ch. 

58K— B2 

P— K4 

Drawu. 

(d) White overlooks an iugenioiis scheme of the adversary. K — K3, f«)lIoweJ 
soon by Kt — CJB3, would have won without trouble. 

Game No. 878. 

Played in tbe second round, May 16tL. 

INDIAN OPENING. 

White 

J. M. Hanham. 

IP— K4 
2P— Q3 

3 B— K2 ? («) 

4 QKt— B3 
5B— Q2 
6B— B3 

7 KKt— K2 

Black 

J. Taubenhaus. 

P— K4 
P— KB4? 
KKt— B3 
B— Kt5 
P-Q3 
Kt— B3 
0-0 

8 0-0 
9P— QR3 
lOKtxB 

11 R— K sq. 

12 K— R sq. 

13 Kt— K2 
14PxKt 
15 R— KKt sq. 

Drawu by mutual consent. (<•) 

P— B5 
BxKt?(f>) 
B— K3 
Kt— Q5 
P— KKt 4 
KtxB 
P— Kt5 

{(I) White was a strong move ahead for any variation of the King's Gambit and 

should not have hesitated to accept it. 
(6) B — R4 was decidedly better. 
{c) A strange termination at such an early stage, especially considering that 

Black had much the best of the game. 

Game No. 379. 

Played in tbe first round, Marcb 25tb. 
QUEEN'S BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

White 
N. MacLeod. 

1P^K4 
2 P— QB3 

Black 

J. Taubenhaus. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 

3Kt— B3 
4 B— Kt 5 
5KtxP 
6Q— R4 

P-Q4 
PxP 
Q-Q4 
KKt^K2 

TAUBENHAUS OAXES. 

U5 

7KtxKt 

8 0—0 

9 P— QB4 ? 

10 Kt— B3 

11 R— K sq. 

12 P— B5 
13P— Q4 

14 P— B3 

15 B— Q3 

16 R— K3 (6) 

17 R^K sq. 

18 P--Q5 
19P— B4 
20 Q— Q4 
21QxQP 
22QxQ 
23PxB 
24RxP?(c) 
25 R— Kt 3 
26B— Kt2?(rf) 
27R-Kt5 

KtxKt 
B— K2 (a) 
Q-K3 
0—0 
P— KB4 
K— R sq. 
Kt— Q sq. 
P— B3 
B— R5 
B— Kt4 
P— K6 
PxP 
B-Q2 
B— B3 
BxKt 
KtxQ 
KtxKBP 
Kt— Q4 
QR— K sq. 
P— B5 
Kt— B3 

28P— B4 
29 BxKt 
30R^Q5 
31R— Q4 
32 B— B sq. 
33BxB 

34 K— B sq. 

35 QR^-Q sq. 

36 QR— Q3 
37RxP 
38R^R4 
39 K— B2 
40R(Q3)— KR3 

41 K— K3 

42 K— B4 
43K— B5 
44RxR 
46Rr-Kt4ch. 
46R^R4 

47 K— B4 

R— K6 
PxB! 
B— B3 
R— KKt sq. 
BxPI 
R-K7 
R(K7)xB(*') 
RxKRP 

Rr-R4 

RxP 
R— B2 
KR^QB sq. 
R— Qsq. 
R— K2 ch. 
R^Q5 oh. 
RxR 
K— Kt2 
K— B2 
R— K4 ch. 
P— KR4, 

and wins. 

(o) Not as strong as B — Q2. 

(6) If 16 P— Kt 3, 16 Q— Kt 3, with a vehement attack. 

(c) B— K sq. or — B4 was a much better defence. 

(d>This Bishop was more effective at Q2, both for defence as well as future 

attacking prospects, 
(e) The capture with the other Rook was superior. White's King could then be 

kept confined with one of the Rooks, while the other was sure to gain some 

Pawns. 

Game No. 880. 

Played in the second round, April 18th. 
VIENNA OPENING. 

/ 

fV/ule 

J. Taubenhaus. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4 Kt— B3 
5B— Kt5 
6PxP 
7 0-0 
8B— R4 

Black 

9P Q3 

0—0-0 

N. MacLeod. 

10 B K3 
IIP QR3? 

P— B4 
P— B5 

P— K4 

12B— B2 

P— KKt4 

P— Q3? 

13P— Kt4 

Kt Q5 

QKt— B3 

14 B X Kt 

BxKt 

B— Kt5 

15 B B5 

BxQ 

Kt— K2 

16BxQ 

RxB 

PxP . 

17KRxB 

P— KR4 

P QR3 

18 B Kt3 

P— Kt5 

Q-Q3 

19 P— QR4 

P— R5 

446 

TAUBENHAUS GAMES. 

20 P— Kt 5 

21 Kt— Kt BQ. 

22 P— R3 

23 Kt— Q2 

24 Kt— B3 

25 P— B3 

26 P -Q4 

27 P— Q5 ? 

28 R— R2 
?9 B— B4 ! 
30 B— K2 ! 
31Kt— Kt5 
32B— Kt4ch. 
33 Kt— R7 ! 

P— R4 
P— Kt6 
Kt— Kt3(«) 
R^KB3 
P— Kt3? 
B— B4 ch. 
B^Q3 
R^R4 
Kt— K2 
Kt— Kt3 
R-Rsq. 
R— Ksq. 
K— Kt sq. 
R-B2 

34B— R6 
35 Kl^Kt 5 
36R— K2? 
37KtxP 
38KtxRP 
39BxKt 
40Kt— B5 
41 P— B4 
42B— Kt4 
43 K— B sq. 
44R— Q3 
45PxR 

46 K— K2 

47 P— Kt 5, and 

R-Kt2 

R (K sq.)- K2 
P— B6 (b) 

KtxRch. (t) 
R^R2 
R— Ksq. 
R— Ktsq. 
B— B4 cL 
B— B7 
RxB(t/) 
R— R8ch. 
R— QR8 
wins. 

(a) By steady mananivring which was supiKjrted by good judgment. Black liati 
obtained much tlie sm>erior position, of which, however, he fails to avail him- 
self at the decisive point. 2a...P— B6; 23 PxP, 23 Kt— Kt 3, followed by 
Kt — B5, would have secured the victor}'. 

(6) Beautiful play that ought to have given him great advantage. 

(e) But he spoils the effect of his previous fine play. R— K2 or Kt x B would have 
ultimately left him with two pieces for the Rook, and a goo<l game. 

(fO The onslaught does not succeed, l)ut he had also otherwise a lost game. 

Game No. 381. 

Played in the first round, April 8th. 

RUV LOPEZ. 

fVhtte 
D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 
2 KK<^B3 
3B— Kt5 

4 0-0 

5 P- Q4 
6Q— K2 
7BxKt 
8PxP 

9 Rr-Q sq. 

10 QKt— B3 

11 Kt— Q4 

12 Kt— B5 

13 Kt— K4 

14 P— KB4 

15 P— QKt 3 

Black 
J. TaubenhauK. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
KtxP 
B— K2 
Kt— Q3 
KtPxB 
Kt— Kt2 
0—0 
Kt— B4 
Q— K sq. 
Kt— K3 
K— R sq. 
R— QKt sq. 
P-QB4 

16R— Q3?(a) 
17KtxKt 

18 Q— Q sq. (ft) 

19 PxP 
20KtxB 
21RxP 

22 R— Q3 

23 R— K3 
24R— Kt3 
25RxR 
26 Q-Q2 
27B— Kt2 

28 R— K sq. 

29 K— R sq. 

30 R-KKt sq. ? 

31 Q— B3 ? 
32KxB(e) 
33 Resigns. 

Kt— Q5 ! 
PxKt 
P— KB3? 
BxP 
RxKt 
P-Q3 
R— KKt 3 
Q— B3 
B— Kt2 
PxR 
R— KB sq. 
RxP 
Q— B4 ch. 
Q— KB4 
(c) K— R2 
BxPch. ((/) 
R— B7ch. 

TAUBfiNHAUS' GAMES. 447 

(a) P— U3 was now necessary. 

(6) If 18 R X P, 18 P— KB4; 19 Px P en pass, (or 19 Kt moves, 19 B— QB4, etc.), 

19. . .Bx P, winning the exchange, 
(c) White's position is dangerously crowded, B— Q4 was now the right play. 
id) A ma.sterly conception. 
{e) If Rx B, White mates in three by R— B8 ch., followed by Q— K4 ch. 

Game No. 383. 

Played in the second round, May 7th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

JV/iite Black llKt— R3(r7) P— Q4! 

12E^QKtsq. PxB 

13PxKt RxP 

14Q— Kt4 P— KR4 

15Q— Kt5 KR— Qsq. 

16K— K2(e) Q— B3! {/) 

17 PxB P— B3(^) 

ISQxKtP QxPch. 

19K— B2 KtxBP 

20 Br-K sq. (A) Q— E5 ch. 

21P— Kt3 RxP 
22 Resigns. 

{a) Not good, though feasible if White had played 5 QKt — B3. 

(6) A blunder which is all the more deplorable as he could have obtained a very 

fine game by 10 P— KKt 4, and if 10. . .Q— R5 ch.; 11 Q— Kt 3, 11 QxQ ch.; 

12 PxQ, 12 P— KB3; 13 P— Kto, etc. 
(c) The proper answer, for if \VTiite take the Knight, Black wins the Rook by 

B-Q5. 
{d) It would have been useless to attempt a diversion now by P — KKt 4, as 

Black would answer P— Q4 and bring the Queen to the Q side. 
{€) Exchanging Queens was much better, but the game was lost. 
(/) Black has played the attack in remarkably fine style from the eleventh move, 

and this sacrifice of a piece evidences high ingenuity. 
ig) All in forcible attacking style. 
(/*) He had no good resource, as Black also threatened Q— Q5 ch. 

J. Taubenhaus. 

D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2P— KB4 

B— B4 

3 KKt— B3 

P Q3 

4B B4 

QKt-B3 

6P— B3 

B— Kt5(a) 

6 P— KR3 

BxKt 

7QxB 

Q— B3? 

8P Q3 

KKt^K2 

9P— B5 

0 0 0 

OP QKt 4 (ft) 

KtxKtP(c) 

D. G. BAIBD'S GAMES. 

Game No. 388. 

Played in the first round, April lOtli. 
FOUR KNtoHTS GAMK. 

\ 

White 

D. G. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt-B3 
3Kt— B3 
4B— B4 
5P— Q3 
6P— QR3? 
7Kt— K2 
8P— B3 
9P— QKt4 

10 Kt-Kt 3 

11 P— KR3 ? 

12 0—0 
13PxP 

14 B— Q2 

15 R— K Bq. 

16 Q— B2 

17 B— R2 

18 P— B4 

19 P— B5 
20B— K3 

21 E— B sq. 

22 K«r-K4 

23 KB— Q sq. 

24 Kt (Q4)— Q2 
25KtxKt 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

P— K4 
KKt-B3 
Kt— B3 
B— B4 
P— KR3? 
P-Q3 
Kt— K2 
B— Kt3 
Kt— Kt3 
0—0 
P— B3 
P— Q4 
KtxP 
B— K3 
Q— B2? 
QR— K sq. 
Q— Kt sq. (a) 
Kt— B3 
B— B2 
Kt— Q4 
P— E3 ? 
Q— Q sq. 
K<^R5? 
Q— B3 
QxKt 

26 Kt— B3 

27 Q— K2 
28BxKt 
29BxB 

30 Q-Q2 

31 K— B sq. 

32 Q— B3 

33 Q— B4 
34QxQ 
35 R— B2 
36E^K2 
37KxR 
38P— Q4 

39 K— Q3 

40 R— K sq. 
41KtxR 

42 K— K4 

43 Kt— B3 
44Kt— Q2 

45 K— Q3 

46 Kt— Kt sq. ! 

47 Kt— B3 ch. 
48K— B4 

49 K— Q3 ? 

50 Kt— K2 

51 P— B3 

52 P— QR4 

53 K— B4 

Q-R4 
Kt— B5? 
PxB 
RxB 
E^Kt3 

Q-Q4 
R— Qsq. 
R-K3 
RxQ 
R— Q2 
RxR' 
K— B sq. 
R^K2 ch. ? (ft) 
P— B3 
RxR 
K— K2 
K— K3 
P— KKt4 
P— B4 cL. 
K-Q4 
B— Kt sq. 
K— K3 
P— KR4 
B— B2 
B— Qsq. 
B— B2 
P— KR4 
B— Qsq. 

T>. O. BAIBD 8 GAMES. 

449 

54 Kfc- B3 

B— B3 

65P— Kt5 

RPxP 

56PxP 

K— Q2 

57 P— Kt 6 

B E2 

58 Kt— K2 

K— K3 

59 Kt-B sq. ! 

B B3 

60Kt— Kt3 

K-Q2 

61 Kt^E5 

K— B sq. 

62 P— Q5 ! 

PxPch. 

63KxP 

P— Kt5 

64Kt— B4 

B K2 

65 Kt— Q6 ch. (c) Resigns. 

<rt)(7V> Black' » ISth move). The previously queried moves were objectionable 
chiefly on account of their causing loss of time. Nevertheless, he has still 
the suiierior game, and he might have further increased his advantage by 
IS . . . KKt— 85, for if 19 B X Kt, 19 Kt x B ! ; 20 R or Kt x P ? , 20 B— Q5, and 
wins. 

(6) The Rook ought to have remained on the Q file in order to stop the advance 
of the adverse QP. 

(c) The ending is a fine sample of play with Knight against Bishop when the 
party having the latter is hampered by a doubled Pawn that cannot be 
dissolved. White's tactics at the finish deserve the highest commendation. 

Game No. 384. 

Played ia the second round, May 10th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 
J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2KKt— B3 
3B— QB4 
4 0-0 
5P— B3 
6P— Q3 
7P— KR3 
8B— K3 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
B— QB4 
P-Q3 
QB— Kt5 
Kt— B3 
B— R4? 
B— Kt3 

9QKt— Q2 
lOB— Kt3 
11 Kt— B4 
12BxB! 

13 Kt— K3 

14 P— KKt4 

15 Kt— Q5 
16KtxQBP 
17 K<^Q5 

Drawn by 

0—0 
Q-K2 
QR— Q sq. 
RPxB 
Kt— Q2 
B— Kt3 
Q— K sq. 
Q-K2 
Q— Ksq. 
consent (a) 

(a) Hardly just to White's superiority of position, besides his being a clear 
Pawn ahead. 

450 

D. a. BAHU) 8 GAHXSL 

Game Xo. 385. 

• 

Played in tbe second round. May 21st. 

GIUOCO 

PIANO. 

WJiite 

Black 

16PxP 

PxP 

J. W. Baird 

D. «. Bainl. 

17QxP 
ISKtxQ 

QxQ 
B-Q5 

IP— K4 

P-K4 

19Kt-Kt6 

BxKtP(«) 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

20 QR— Kt sq. 
21KtxE 

B B6 

3 B— B4 

B— B4 

BxKt 

4 P-Q3 
5B K3 

P— Q3 

22Kt— Kt6 

K— B2 

B KtS 

23 Kt— K5 ch. 

K— B3 

6 0—0 

Kt— B3 

24 Kt— B3 

B— B5 

7 QKt— Q2 

O— 0 

25 KRr-K sq. 

P— QKt3 

8 P— KR3 ? 

Kt K2 

26R— K8 

B— Kt2 

9QB— Kt5 

Kt— Kt 3 

27 QE— K sq. 

RxR 

10 Kt— R4 

Kt— B6 

28RxR 

P— QR4 

11 Q— B3 

Kt— K3 

29 Kt— Q4 ? {by 

K-B2 

12KBxKt 

PxB 

30 R— QKt 8 

B R3 

13 Q K2 

P— KR3 

31Er-QR8 

B Kt2 

14BxKt 

QxB 

32R— R7 

B K4(c> 

15 KKt— B3 

P-Q4? 

33Kt— B3 

Resigns. 

(a) This loses the exchange, but he could not recover the Pawn by R — B3, as 

White would answer Kt — K7 ch. 
(by He could have won a piece by R — B8 ch. 
{c) A blunder, but as White threatened Kt — Kt5, his game was past recovery 

anyhow. 

(iume No. 386. 

Played in the first round, March 28th. 

QUEEN'S 

PAWN OPENING. 

White 

lihuk 

8PxP 

0—0 

C. F. Burille. 

D. G. Baird. 

9 0—0 

P— QR3 'i 

10 Q— K2 

Kt^KR4 

IP Q4 

P-Q4 

UP— KKt 3 

P— B4? 

2P— K3 

KKt— B3 

12QKt-Q2?(a) 

P— B5 

3 KKt— B3 

P— K3 

13 P— KKt 4? 

Kt— B3 

4B— Q3 

P-QB4 

14 Kt— K5 

BxKt 

5P QKt3 

QKt— B3 

15 PxB 

Kt-Q2 

6 P— QR3 ? 

B-Q3 

16 Kt— B3 

Kt— B4 

7B Kt2 

PxP 

17 QRr-Q sq. 

B— 02 

18 P— B4 ? (h) 

19QxKt 

20Q— Q4 

21 K— R sq. 

22P— B5 

23 R— KKt sq. 

24QxQ?(c) 

25 Kt— Q4 

26 KR— K sq. 
27P— Kt4 

D. O. 

BATRI) 8 GAMES. 

KtxB 

28 KtxP 

Kt— K2 • 

29 Kt B7 

Q— K sq. 

30KtxR 

B— B3 

31 P— B3 

Q— Kt3 

32 K— Kt sq. 

Q~K5 

33RxB 

PxQ 

34 R— QKt sq. 

B-Q4 

35 K— B2 

Kt— Kt3 

36Resigii& 

KtxP 

451 

Kt^Q6! 
B— B3 
P— Q6 disch. 
BxPch. 
BxR 
P— K7 
KtxB 
R— Ksq. 

id) 

(a) Kt— K5 was tlie right play. 

(b) No doubt Black cannot answer Kt x KtP on account of the rejoinder B x P ch., 
followeil by Q — B2 ch. if King take, but the adversary's position neverthe- 
less improves after the text move. 

(c) Disastrous. R— Q3 was his only defence. 
(d)The finish is remarkably fine. 

Game No. 887. 

Played in the second round, April 22d. 

RUY 

L0PK7., 

fVhite 

Black 

18 KR— Q sq.' 

Q-B sq. 

D. G. Baird. 

C. F. Burille. 

19Q— B6 

20 P— QKt 4 (a) 

B— Kt3 
R— Ksq. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

21R— Q2 

R— Kt sq. 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

22 P— R3 

R K2 

3B— Kt5 

P QR3 

23 QR-Q sq. 

Q Ksq. 

4B R4 

K1^B3 

24QxQch. 

QRxQ 

5 0-0 

KtxP 

25 K— R2 

P— KB3 

6P-Q4 

P— QKt4 

26 R— QR sq. 

B— B sq. 

7 KtxP 

KtxKt 

27 QR— Q sq. 

K— B2 

8PxKt 

Kt-B4 

28Kt^Q5 

R— Q2 

9B Kt3 

KtxB 

29B K3 

BxB 

lORPxKt 

P Q4 

30 Kt X B 

QR-Qsq 

11 P X P en paas. 

BxP 

31 RxRcL 

RxR 

12 Q— B3 

B K3 

32RxRch. 

BxR (6) 

13 Q B6ch. 

B— Q2 

33K— Kt3 

K— K3 

14 R^K sq. ch. 

B K2 

34K— B3 

K Q3 

15 Q K4 

B K3 

35 K— K4 

P-QB4 

16 Kt— B3 

0—0 

36PxPch. 

KxP 

17 B B4 

KB— QB4 

Drawn. 

(a) Kt — Q5 was superior. 

(6) The game is simplified to a dry position which allows no initiative on either 
side, and a draw is the natural result. 

452 

D. G. BAIRD8 GAMES. 

Gatne Xt>. 388^. 

Played in the second round, April 25tb. 

\ 

RUY 

IX)FKZ. 

White 

Blade 

25 Kt— R6 

BxB 

C. P. Burille. 

D. (). Bttinl. 

26QRxB 
27 PxP 

P— KB4 
RxP 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

28 Kt— Kt 3 

R— B5 

2KKt B3 

QKt— B3 

29Kt— Kt4 

QR KBsq. (c) 

3B Kt5 

P QR3 

30 P— B3 

Q— Kt3 

4B B4 

P— QKt4 

31 K— R2 

Kt— B3 

5B— Kt3 

B— Kt2 

32 Kt— Q3 . 

R KR5 

6 0—0 

B K2 

33 P— QB4 

B Bsq. 

7P— Q4 

P Q3 

34 Kt— B2 

Q— R2 

8P— B3 

Kt-B3 

35 K— Kt sq. 

Q— Kt3 

9Q— K2 

O-O 

36 Kt Kt4l 

KtxKt 

10 E— Q sq. ! 

Q— B sq. 

37 RP X Kt 1 

R— B5 

11 QKt— Q2 

Q Kt5? 

38 Q QB2 

Q R3 

12 P— KR3 

Q— R4? 

39 R Ksq. 

BxP(f/) 

13 Kfc— B sq. 

Q— Kt3 

40PxB 

QRxKtP 

14K<^Kt3 

P— R3 

41 Q B3 

RxP 

15Kt^R4 

Q R2 

42QxR! 

RxQ 

16 KKt— B5 

QR Ksq. 

43RxR 

Q-Q7 

17 P Q5 

Kt— Kt sq. 

44 R KR4ch. 

K— Ktsq. 

18 P QR4I 

PxP 

46 R— KB sq. 

QxQP 

19KBxP 

QKtr-Q2 

46 Kt— B5 

Q— B4 cb. 

20BxKt 

KtxB 

47 K— R2 

P-Q4 

21KtxRPch. 

K— R sq. («) 

48 R KKt4 

K— B2 

22 KKt B5 

B KB3 

49 Kt— Q6 cL. ! k 

') K-Kt sq. (/•) 

23 Kt— K3 

B Kt4 

50 K<r-K8 

Resigns, {g) 

24Kt— B2?(ft) 

B— B5 

(a) Evidently if P x 

Kt, White recovers 

the piece byQ— Kt4 

oh., with a splendid 

game. 
(6) Much better was Q— B4. 
(c) Black has gained ground and could have much improved his position here 

by P— K5. 
{d)A desperate sacrifice. 
(e) Very beautiful. 
{/) If 49. . . K— K3; 50 R— Kt 6 ch., 50 K— K2; 51 R x P ch., 51 K— K3 ! ; 52 R— 

Kt6 ch., 52 K — K2; 53 R— B7 ch., and mates next move. 
{g) White threatens RxP ch., followed by R— B6 or — B7 accordingly. 

D. Q. BAIRD S OAUES. 

453 

Uame No. 389. 

\ 

Played in the first round, March 30th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 
G. II. D. Go8.sip. 

IP— K4 

2 QKt— B3 

3 KKt— B3 
4KtxP 

5 P— Q4- 
6PxKt 

7 Kt— K2 

8 P— KB4 

9 Kt— Kt 3 
lOB— K3 

11 B— Q3 

12 Q— B3 

13 Q— B2 

14 P— KR3 
16 0—0 

16 QR— K sq. 

17 P— B3 

18 P— QKt 4 

19 K— R sq. (a) 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
QKt— B3 
KtxKt 
B— Q3 
BxP 
P— QB3 
B— B2 
P-Q3 
Kt— B3 
O— O 
B— Kt5 
B-Q2 
R— Ksq. 
B— Kt3 
B— R4? 
P— QKt4 
B— B2 
B— K3 

20 P— B5 
21BxB 
22B— Kt5 
23BxKt 
24PxP 
25 K— R2 
26P— KR4? 
27 K— R3 
28QxQ 
29KxB 
30K— B4 
31 P— QR4 
32P— Kt3 
33 P— Kt 5 
34R^K3 
35RxR 
36 R— K sq. 
37PxP 
38 R— K4 

ch. 

B— B5 

PxB 

P-Q4 

QxB 

Q— Q3! 

PxP 

P— KR3?(6) 

QxKtch. 

BxQ 

K— B sq. 

QR— Q sq. 

P— B3? 

P— QR4? 

K— B2 

P— Q5?(c) 

KxR 

K— B2 

RxPch, 

R— Q2 

39 R X P, and White xdtimately 

won. 

(a) Of course if 19 B x P, 19 R x B, which White dare not retake. 

(6) Q— KB8 would have won. 

(c) Disastrous. R — K2 was now his best play. 

Game No. 390. 

Played in t^e second round, April 29th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

D. G. Baird. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 

Black 

<). H. D. Gossip. 

P— K4 
QKt-B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 

5 0—0 

KtxP 

6P Q4 

P— QKt 4 

7KtxP 

KtxKt 

8PxKt 

B Kt2 

9B— Kt3 

B K2 

10 B— Q5 

BxB 

11 QxB 

Kt— B4 

454 

12 B— K3 

13 Q-Q2. 

14 K<^B3 
15PxP 
16BxKt! 

17 Kt— K4 

18 QR— Q sq. ! 
19QxP 
20RxIl 
21 Q— K6 ch. 

(({) An error that loses his l>est Pawn. 

(6) He could do no good whatever he did, but his game goes to pieces now in a 
few moves. 

D. G. 

BAIBD S GAMES. 

P— QB3 

22 R— Q sq. 

P-Q5 

0 0 

23 Q— K5 

R— Bsq. 

P— B3? (a) 

24RxP 

Q— R4 

ExP 

25 R— Q sq. 

B Bsq. 

BxB 

26 Kt^Kt 5 

R— B4 {b) 

R-B4 

27 Kt— B7 ch. 

K— Kt sq. 

B E2 

28 Q K6 

P— Kt3 

E— Q4 

29 Kt— K5 disch 

. K— R sq. 

PxR 

30 Q— B6 ch. 

Resigns. 

K— R sq. 

Game No. 391. 

Played in the first round, April 13th. 

INDIAN OPENING. 

Whiie 
J. M. Hauhaiu. 

IP— K4 

2P— Q3 

3KKt— B3 

4 P— QB3 

5B— K2 

6 P— KR3 ? 

7Q— B2 

8PxP 

9B— K3 
lOP— KKt4 
11 QK«r-Q2 
12P— QKt3 
13 Kt— B sq. 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
QKt— B3 
B— K2? 
0—0 
P-Q4 
PxP? 
P— QR3 ? 
Kt— K sq. 
Kt— Q3 
B— K3 
Q— Q2 
QR— Q sq. 

14Kt— Kt3 

15 0— O 

16 QR— Q sq. 

17 P— B4 

18 Kt— R4 
19Kt— Kt2 
20P— B4 
21Q— Kt2 

22 P— KB5 

23 P X KtP 

24 B— R5 

25 P— QKt 4? 

26 P— QR3 
27RxKt 
28RxB 

Kt— Kt4 
Kt^Q3 
Q— Ksq. 
P— B3 
P— Kt3 
Kt— B2 
Kt— Q5 ? (b) 
B— QB4 
PxP 
B— QBsq. 
Q— B3 
Q— Kt3 
Kt— B6 ch. 
BxBch. ? 
RxRch. 

W 

29 B X R, and wins. 

(o) P — Q4 was mnch stronger. 

(6) The further advance of this Pawn afterward greatly harasses his game, and 

he should have exchanged it, which would have also isolated White's KP. 
(c) A strange error. R x B ch. first won the exchange, with an excellent gamo, 

instead of which he remains a piece behind. 

D. O. BAIBD S GAMES. 

455 

Game No. 892. 

Played in the second round, May 14th. 

White 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

J. M. Hauham. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt-B3 

P-Q3 

3 P— Q4 

K1^Q2 

4PxP? 

PxP 

5B B4 

P— QB3 

6Kt— Kt5 

Klr-B3 

7 P— KR3 ? 

Q B3 

8 QKt— B3 

B K2 

FHIUDOR'S DEFENCE. 

9B— K3 
lOP— KB4 
IIB— K2?(a) 
12P— B3?(6) 
13BxKt 

14 B— B4 ch. 

15 K<^K6 

16 B— B sq. (c) 

17 K— K2 

18 Kt— Q5 

(«)B — Q8 was superior. 

(6) A grave mistake wliich loses a piece at least, 
(c) There was nothing to be done. If 16 B x B, 
P — KB4, and wins. 

Q— Kt3 
Kt— Kt3 
O— O 
P— B3 ! 
PxB 
K— R sq. 
BxKt 
Q— Kt 6 cL 
QR— Q sq. 
PxKt, 

and wins. 

16QxP; 17 KB— Bsq., 17 

Game No. 893. 

Played in the first round, April 9tli. 

SCOTCH GAMBIT. 

White 

Black 

D. G. Baird. 

N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

3P— Q4 

PxP 

4KtxP 

KtxKt 

5QxKt 
6Kt— B3 

P— Q3 (o) 

Kt— B3 

7B— Q3 

B K2 

80 0 

P— KR3? 

9P— KR3? 

P— B3 

0 Q— K3 

P— Q4 

11 PxP 

12 KtxKt 

13 Br-K sq. 

14 B— K4 

15 Q— KKt 3 
16B— K3 
17P— B3?(6) 
18P— Kt4 

19 Q— B3 

20 B— KB5 
21BxBch. 
22 Q— K4 
23BxP! 

KtxP 
QxKt 
B— K3 
Q— QB4 
0—0—0 
Q-QI14 
P— R3 
Q— B2 
P— KKt4 
P— KB4? 
PxB 
P-K4 
BxB 

(a) Kt— K2, followed by Kt— B8, is the authorized play. 

(6)17QxP, 17QR— Ktsq. (or 17. . .KR— Kt sq.; ISQxRP); 18 Q— Q4 was 
safe enough. 

456 

D. O. 

BAIBD B GAMES. 

24 Q— B5 ch. 
25QxB 

Q— Q2 

36 P— R5 ch. ? 

K— Kt4 

QBr-Kt sq. 

37R— Q2 

K— R5! 

26QxKP 

QxP 

38K— Q3 

K— Kt6 

27 Q— K6 ch. 

QxQ 

39 R— Kfc 2 ch. 

KxR 

28BxQ 

P-R5 

40KxR 

RxP 

29 K— B sq. ? (c) 

P— R6 

41 K— B6 

R— QB7 

30PxP 

RxP 

42 P— B4 

R B6 

31 K— K2 

R— QB6 

43 R Kgq. 

R B7 

32 K— R2 

R^Baq. 
R— QB5 

44 R— KB sq. 

R B6 

33R— K3 

And the game 

was soon 

34 P— QB3 

K— B2 

up as drawn. 

35P— R4?(rf) 

K— Kt3 

given 

(c) K — R2.or R — Kii were much superior. 

(rf)R — Q2, followed by the wtme R— Q3, in order to oppose Rooks on the tliird 
row, wa.s the proper play. 

Game No. 304. 

Played in the second round, May 8th. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP PA\VN GAME. 

White 
N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 

2 P— QB3 

3 KKt-BS 
4B— Kt5 
5KtxP 
6Q— R4 

7 P— KB4 
8KtxP(B8) 
9 0—0 

10 P— Q4 

11 P— B4 

Black 
D. Q. Baird. 

P— K4 

QKt— B3 

P-Q4 

PxP 

Q-Q4 

Kt— K2 

P X P en pass. 

B— Q2 

P— B3 (a) 

P— QR3 

Q-R4 

12 P— Q5 

13 B X B ch. 
14B— B4?(fc) 
15PxP 

16 Q— B2 
17BxP 
18P— Kt6 
19 Q— KB2 
20B— Kt3? 

21 R— K sq. ch. 

22 B— B4 

23 B— K8 

24 K— R sq. 

25 Resigns. 

Kt— Kt sq. 
KtxB 
P— QKt4! 
Kt— QKt3 
Kt(Kt3)xP 
R— Bsq. 
KtxP 
Kt— B6 
Kt— B4! 
K— B2 
B— B4 
Kt(B4)xB 
Kt— B4 

(o) P — QR8 at once was better. 
(h, Kt — B3 was much superior. 

D. G. baird's games. 457 

Game No. SOo. 
Played in tlie first round, March 25th. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

inue 

IJhrk 

19 Q— Kt3 

PxQP 

1). (}. Bttird. 

D. M. MartiiM'z. 

20PxKtP 
21QxPcli. 

QBxP 
B— B3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

22Q Q3 

K— R sq. 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

23P— Kt5 

B Kt2 

3 B Kt 5 

B B4? 

24P— QR4 

P— B4 

40 0 

Q B3? 

26P— R5 

P— R3(ft) 

5P— B3 

KKt-K2 

26PxRP 

B B3 

6BxKt? 

KtxB 

27 B Kt6! 

KtxB 

7P— Q4 

B— Q3?(«) 

28PxKt 

B B4 

8B— K3 

P— QKt3 

29 KR— Kt sq. 
30Kt(Q2)xP 

PxP 

9QKt Q2 

B R3 

P— Q4 

10 R Ksq. 

P-R3 

31 KtxB 

QxKt 

11 Kt— B 8u. 

0 0 0? 

32 P— Kt 7 ch. 

K— R2 

12 P— Q5 

Kt— K2 

33 R— QB sq. 

Q-Q3 

13 Q R4 

K— Kt2? 

34 Q— B3 

R— K3 

14P_B4! 

P-B3 

35KtxP!(c) 

B— Kt4 

15 KR Bsq. 

Kt— B sq. 

36Kt^B7 

Q Kt3 

l??!!^^'-* 

Q-K2 

37KtxR 

R K7 

R — K sq. 

38 P queens ch. ! 

Resigns. 

18P— QKt4 

P QKt 4 

(a) By his last exchange Wliite has allowed him to escape with at least an even 
game which he could have now obtained by 7. . .B — Kt3, for if H B— Kt5, 8 
Q— Kt 3; 9 P X P, 9 Kt x P, etc, 

ib) He had nothing better. 

(c) Fine and decisive. 

Game No. 396. 
Played in the second round, April 18th. 

\ 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

WhUe 

Black 

4B R4 

Kt— B3 

50 0 

B K2 

D. M. Martinez.. 

D. G. Baird. 

6P— Q3 

P-Q3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

7P— B3 

0 0 

2 KKt B3 

QKt— B3 

8P— KR3? 

Kt— K sq. 
P— KR4 

3B-Kt5 

P QR3 

9P— KKt4? 

458 

D. O. BAIBD S OAKES. 

10 Kt— R2 

llBxB?(a) 

12 Q— Q2 

13K— Kt2 

14PxP 

15 R— KB sq. 

16KtxB 

17 K— B sq. 

18 B— Q sq. 

19 Q— K3 
20PxQ 

21 Kt— Q2 

22 B— Kt 3 

23 K— K2 

24 QEr— KKt sq. 

25 R— Kt 2 

26 R— KB sq. 

B— Kt4 
QxB 
Q— R5 
PxP- 
BxP 
Kt— K2! 
QxKtch. 
Kt— Kt3 
Q-B5 
QxQ 
Kt— B3 
QR— Q sq. 
P— B3 
KR— K sq. 
K— B sq. I 
P-Q4 
K— K2 

27 P— Q4? 

28KPxP 

29KtxP 

30 K— Q3 

31RxKt(B6) 

32R(B6)xKt(7;) 

33 K— K3 

34 P— B4 

35 K— Q2 

36 K— Q3 

37 P— Q5 

38 R— KR2 

39 R— K2 ch. 
40R— K8 

And after a fe 
White resigned, 

PxQP 

PxP 

K— B sq. ! 

RxKt 

R— B5! 

PxR 

R— B3 

R — K sq. cli. 

R— K5 

R (K5)— Bo 

P— B4 

K— K2 

K-Q3 

R— B7 

w more moves 

(o) Kt — Q2 was a much better defence. 

(6) The sacrifice of the exchange was compulsory. 

BURILLE'S GAMEa 

Game No. 897. 

Played in the first round, April 5tli. 

BUY 

LOPEZ. 

WInte 

Black 

18P— B3 

Kt^K4 

C. F. Burille. 

J. W. Baird. 

19 B— Kt sq. 
20PxP 

Kt^B3 
PxP 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

21RxR 

RxR 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

22 Q KB2 

Q K2 

3B— Kt5 

P QR3 
Kt— B3 

23 Rr-Q sq. 

Q— B2 

4B— R4 

24B— B4 

R— Q sq. 
Q— Kt 3 ck 

6 0-0 

B K2 

25 Q— Q2 

26 K— R sq. 

6P Q4 

P-QKt4 

P Q4 

7B Kt3 

P-Q3 
0-0 

27 B K3 

Q R4 

8 QKt— B3 

28 Q KB2 

R-Q2 

9P— QR4? 

QKtxP 

29 P— KR3 

Q-Qsq. 

lOKtxKt 

PxKt 

30Q— Kt3 

P-B3 (a) 

llQxP 

P-QB4 

31PxP 

RxP 

12 Q K3 

Kt— Kt5 

32RxR 

QxR 

13 Q— K2 

P— B5 

33 B K4 

Q Q2 

14B— R2 

B B3 

34Q— R4 

B— B4 

15 Kt— Q5 

R— Ksq. 

36BxKt 

QxB 

16 P— B3 

B K3 

Drawn. 

ITKtxBch. 

QxKt 

(a)If 80...P— Q5; 31 PxP, SlKtxP; 3^ B x Kt, 32RxB; SSRxK, and Black 
dare not retake on account of the impending mate by Q — Kt 8 eh. 

460 

BUBILLE 8 OAWES. 

Game Xo. 898. 

Played in the secoucl round. May 4tli. 
QUEENS FIAKOHETTO. 

IVhife 
J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 

2 P-Q4 

3 B— Q8 
4Kt— K2 

5 0—0 

6 B— K3 

7 P— QB4 

8 QKt— B3 
9P— QR3 

lOP— Ko?(a) 
llPxP 

12 P— B3 

13 Kt— Kt 5 
UKtxRP? 
15Q— Kt3 
16 B— KB2 
17QxP 

18 P— Q5 
19Q— R5 

20 K.t X P 

21 P X KP 
22Q— KKt5 
23Q— Kt4 
24 Kt— Kt 6 

C. F. Burillt*. 

P— QKtS 
B— Kt2 
P— K3 
P— Kt3 
B— Kt2 
Kt— K2 
0-0 
Kt— R3 
P— KB4 
P-Q3 
QxP 
QR— Q sq. 
Ci— Q2 
P— B3 
P— B5 
R— Rsq. 
KR— Kt sq. 
B— QB sq. 
RxKt 

QR— R8q.?(/>) 
Q— Q3 
P— KR3 
P— Kt4 
KtxKt 

25 B x Kt 

BxP 

26 QR— Q sq. I 

27 Q— R5 

28 QR— K sq. 

29 P— B4 

Q-K4 
R— Q sq. 
Q B3 
BxP 

30PxP 

QxKKtP 

31 B R4 

QxQ 

32 B x Q 

B (^5 cli. 

33 K-R «!. 

BxR 

34BxR 

RxB 

35RxB 

BxP 

36 R Ksq. 

BxP 

37 R— R sq. 

R— Kt sq. 

38 B B3 

R Kt3 

39P— Kt4 

B K2 

40B— K4 

Kt— Kto 

41 R— QKt sq. 

42 B— Bo 

P— B4 

P— B5?(() 

43 R QBsq. r 
44RxP! 

R QB3 
RxR 

45 B K6ch. 

K— Kt2 

46BxR 

K— B3 

47 P— R4 

K-K4 

48 P— Kt 5 

And after a 

few more moTe» 

tUe game was given up as drawn. 

{a) Supporting the centre by P— KIi8 is generally best in similar positions. 

{(j) It was better to get rid of the hostile attack by KP x P. 

ir) This spoils a gooii game. K— B2 should have been played first. 

Ganve No. 809. 

Played in the second round, May 16tL. 
KING'S GAMBIT DEC.^.IXKD. 

White 

BUick 

3 KKt— B3 

P-Q3 

C. P. Burille. 

.]. \V. Baird. 

4Kt B3 

KKt-B3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

5B B4 

0 0 

2P— KB4 

B B4 

6P— Q3 

B KKt 5 

BUBILLE 8 GAMES. 

461 

7PxP? 
8 P— KR3 
9Qxl3 
lOB— Q2 

11 0—0—0 

12 B— Kt 3 

13 P— QR4 
UP— Kt4 

15 P— Kt 5 

16 QBr-B sq. 
17P— Kt6? 
18P— R4 
19P— R5 
20PxKt 
21BxP 

PxP 
BxKt 
QKt— Q2 
P— B3 
P— QKt4 
P— QR4 
Q— Kt3 
B— Q5! 
Kt— K sq. 
? (a) Kt— Q8 
RPxP 
Kt— QB4! 
KtxBch. 
P— Kt4?(fc) 
P— B3 (c) 

22P— R6? 

23 B— Q2 

24 P— R7 ch. 
2.5 R— R6 

26 R— Kt 6 ! 

27 R^R sq. ! 

28 Q— R5 ! 
29R— KtSch. 
30 P X R queens ch. 

KxQ 
31Q— Kt6ch ~ " 
32QxBP 
33QxBP 
34 Q— B8 ch 

35 R — R8 ch., and wins. 

R— B2?(rf) 
P— Kt4 
K— R sq. 
QR— KB sq. 
PxP 
QxP 
R— QKt2 
RxR 

R— Kt2?(e) 
Kt— Kt2 
Q-B2 
Q— B sq. 

(ii) He ought to have gone on systematically with the advance of hi.s Pawns on 

the K side, eoinmenciug with P — KRl at once. 
(6) 20. . .KKtPx P, followed by P — B3, made his position safe, with a Pawn 

ahead. 
«■) Best, if 21... BxKt; 22PxB, 22 PxP; 23 P— R6, would have opened a 

powerful attack, 
(d) A false alarm induces him to alter the winning course. 22. . . P x B; 23 Q — 

Ro. 23 Q— B2; 24 Q— Kt6, 24 Q— K2, was enough to repel the adverse attack, 

and he remained with a piece pins. 
(*) He can no more resist the adverse attack which lias been formed with power 

and ingenuity. If 31 . . . K — B sq. ; 32 Q x P ch., followed by R — R8 ch., wins 

in a few moves. 

Game No. 400. 

Played in the first round, March 26th. 

White 
C. F. Burille. 

1P-Q4 
2 KK1^B3 
3P— K3 
4B— K2 
5 QKt— Q2 
6P— QKt3 
7B— Kt2 

QUEEX'S PAWN OPENING. 

Black 
G. H. D. Go8.sip. 

P— Q4 
KKt-B3 
B— Kt5? 
P— K3 
B— K2 
0-0 
QKt— Q2 

8 0-0 
9P— B4 

10 R— B sq. 

11 R— K sq. 
12KtxB 
13PxQP 
14PxP 

15 RxR 

16 Q— B2 
17KtxB 

P— B4 
R— Bsq. 
P— QKt 3 
BxKt? 
Kt— K5? 
KP X P {(1) 
RxP 
QKtxR 
B— R5 
QxKt 

(a) His QP becomes isolated and his game much weakened for the ending. 

462 

18B— KB3?(ft) 
19 B^KB sq. 
20QxKt 
21QxQ 
22 B^B sq. 
23R— B7 
24PxKt3 
25K— Kt2! 
26 B— B6 
27PxP 

(b) P — KKt8 was much better. 

(c) BInck had already recovered ground and could have held it by R — QB «q. 
((l)On\y another way of losing. 

BURnj.F. 8 GAMES. 

Kt— Q6! 

28RxP 

R-Q6 

KtxB 

29 B-B6 

R-Q7 

Q— B3?(c) 

30Br-Kt5! 

BxRP 

PxQ 

31RxBP 

P— KB3 

P— B4 

32P— B4 

Kt— K3 

P QB4 

33B B4 

Kt^Q5 

Kt— Kt4 

34Br-Q5! 

Ktx'Pid) 

E^Qsq. 

36BxKt 

B B6 

P Q5 

36B— Q3 

K— Kt2 

RxP 

37 B B4, and 

wins. 

Game Xo. 401. 

Played in the second round, April 19tb. 

VIENNA OI'EXIXG. 

White 
O. H. D. Gos.sip. 

IP— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4P-Q3 
5 QKt— K2 
6PxP 

7 KKt— B3 

8 KtxB? (a) 

9 Kt— Kt 3 

10 B— B4 (b) 

11 Q-Q2 
12QxKt 

13 Q— K5 ch. 

14 Q— B5 ch. 

15 K— Q2 

16 Q— K5 

17 Q— B4 

18 P— QR3 

19 R— KKt sq. 

20 R— QB sq. 

21 B— K2 

22 Kt— B sq. 

23 P— B3 

Jihick 
C. F. Burille. 

P— K4 
KKt— B3 
P— Q4 
P-Q5? 
B— Q3 
BxP 
Kt— B3 
KtxKt 
KKt— Kt5 
Kt— Kt 3 
KtxB 
Kt— K6 
K— B sq. 
K— Kt sq. 
P— QKt3 
P— KB3 
Q-K2 
K— B2 
Q-B4 
R— K sq. 
R— K2 
Q— R4 ch. 
KtxKt 

24KRxKt 

B— Kt2 

25 XJ B5 

PxPch. 

26 RxP 

QxQ 

27RxQ 

R— Qsq. 

28R— KB4? 

BxP 

29 P— KKt 3 

P— QB4 

30 B B3 

B Kt3 

31 P- KKt 4 

R (K2)— Q2 

32 B K2 

R— Q5 ? (c) 

33RxR 

RxR 

34P— Kt4! 

PxP 

35 R B7ch. 

R— B sq. 

36PxP 

KxP 

37RxRP 

R-Q5 

38 R— R8 ch. 

B— K sq. 

39 K— B3 

B^Q3 

40P— Q4 

K— K2 

41 R^R7 ch. 

R— Q2 

42Rr-R6 

R— B2 ch. 

43 K Q2 

R— Kt2 

44B— B3 

R — Q2 

46K— K3 

R — Q3 

46 R— R7 ch. 

B Q2 

47 P Q5 

Drawn, (d) 

^ 

BTTBtLIiE S GAMES. 

463 

(rt) P — QB3. would have given White the better game. 

(6) 10 P—QB3 with the likely continuation 10...Q— R5: 11 Q— R4 ch., 11 B— Qa 

(or lt...Kt— H3; 12 B— B4); 12QxQP, 12KtxRP; 13 Q— B2, 13 QKt— 

Kt 5; 14 Q — B4, was much stronger. 
(c) Premature. K — K2 was much superior. 
(rf)A fair draw, though Black is a Pawn ahead. He cannot make use of his 

pas-sed KtP or of the KBP after advancing P — KKt 8, as White's King would 

come in accordingly at K5 or QB5. 

Game No. 402. 

Played in the second round, May 2d. 

QUEEN'S PAWN OPENING. 

White 

C. F. Burille. 

IP— Q4 
2 P— QB4 
3P— K3 
4PxBP 
5PxP?(a) 
6 KKt— B3 
7B— Q3 
8 0—0 
9Kt^B3 

10 P— QR3 

11 Q— QKt 4 

12 Kt— QKt 5 
13B— Kt2 
14 QKt— Q4 
16 R— QB sq. 
16Kt— K2?(ft) 
17BxKt? 

Black 

G. H. D. Gossip. 

P-Q4 
P— K3 
P— QB4? 
BxP 
PxP 
KK1^B3 
0—0 
Kt— B3 
P— QKt3? 
B— Kt2 
B— Q3 
B— Kt sq. 
P— QR3 
Kt— K2 
Q— Q2 
B— Q3 
PxB 

18 Kt— Kt3 

19 B— Kt sq, 
20RPxB 
21Q— Q3(c) 

22 Q— Q2 

23 Kt— Q4 

24 Kt— K2 
25RxR 
26RxRch. 
27 Kt— B4 
28KtxP 
29QxKt 

30 Q— Q8 ch, 
31QxB 

32 K— R2 

33 Q— B sq. 

34 K— Kt sq, 

35 K— R2 
36K— R3 

Q— Kt5! 
BxKt? 
KR^QB sq. 
Q-K6 
Q— KKt6 
P— B4 
RxR 
R— QB sq. 
BxR 

Q— Kt2!(d) 
KtxKt 
Q— R8 
K— Kt2 
QxBch. 
Q— Q6 
P— Kt4 
P— B3 
K— B2 
K— Kt3 
Drawn. 

(a) KKt — B8 was now stronger, as Black could not well exchange without 

subjecting his King to barassement. 
(6) Kt — B4, threatening Kt — Bo, made it more unpleasant for the opponent, 
(c) Here and on the next move Q — Q2 were better. 
(d)An ingenious move for drawing purposes. 

464 

BUBILLE 8 GAMES. 

C4ame No. 408. 

Played in the first round, April 9tL. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

imte 

Black 

J. M. Hiinlmni. 

(". F. BuriUe 

IP— Ki 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

3B— B4 

B— B4 

4P— Q3 

KKt B3 

5QKt B3 

P-Q3 

6P— QR3? 

Kt-K2 

7Kt— K2 

Kt— Kt 3 

8P QB3 

0 0 

9Kt— Kt3 

B-KKt 5 

10 0—0? 

Kt— R5 

11 B KKt 5 

Kt X Kt cb. 

12PxKt 

B E6 

13 R-K sq. 

P— KR3 

14 B K3 

B— Kt3(«) 

15 P— Q4 

Kt^Q2 

16 P— B4? 

PxBP 

ITQBxP 

Q-R5 

18 B— K3 

Kt-B3 

19 P— B3 

QR Ksq. 

20 B— B2 

21 K— R sq. 

22 Q— Q2 

23 B— K2 

24 R— KKt sq. 

25 B^Q sq. 

26 B— K3 

27 Ktr-K2 (/;) 

28 Kt— B sq. 

29 Q— KB2 
30PxP(r) 
31 Kt— Q3 
32QxB 

33 Kt— B2 

34 Q— Q4 
35PxP 

36 B— B3 

37 QR— K sq. 

38 Q— K3 

39 R— KKt 3 

Kt— R4 
K— R sq. 
Q— B3 
Kt— B5 
R — KKt sq. 
P— KKt4 
P— QB4? 
Kl^R4 
R— Kt2 
Q— K2 
BxP 
BxB 
P-Q4! 
B— B4 
PxP(fO 
B— Kt3 
P— QKt3 
R— Q sq. 
Kt— B5 

Drawn. 

(a) BxB, followed by P— B3, was preferable. 
(6) B — Kt 8 was superior. 

(c) Kt — Q3 first gave him better attacking prospects. 

(r/)The sacrifice of a I'aw^n by withdrawing B — Kt3, followed by Kt — Bo, would 
have been preferable here. 

Game No. 404. 
Played iu the second round, Maj 8tb. 

KINU'S GAMBIT DECUNEU. 

IVftite 

Bhick 

3 KKt— B3 

P-Q3 

C. F. Biirille. 

J. M. Hunhani. 

4K<^B3 
5B B4 

Kt-Q2 
KKt-B3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

6P Q3 

P QB3 

2 P— KB4 

B— B4 

7Q— K2 

Q— K2 

8B— Q2 
9B— Kt3 

10 P— QIU 

11 Kt— Q sq. 

12 B— K3 
ISPxP 

14 B— QB4 

15 0— O 

16 K— R sq. 
ITKtxKt 
18B— Kt3 
19Kt— B4 

BUBHiLE S GAMES. 

P— QKt4 

20 Q B2 

P-QR4 • 

21 QK<^Q2 

P— Kt5 

22Kt— R4 

B Kt3 

23 Q— K3 

Kt— B4 

24BxB 

PxP 

25R— B3 

0— O 

26R— Kt3 

Kt— Kt5 

27 Kt— B4 

KtxB 

28KtxPch. ! 

Kt— Kt2 

29RxQ 

K— R sq. 

30 P— KKt 3, and 

B— B2 

465 

Kt— B4 
P-KB3 
P— KKt 3 
B— K3 (a) 
KtxB 
Q— Kt2 
B— Qsq. 
R— KKt sq. ? 
QxKt 
RxR 
wins, (c) 

(a) Kt X B, followed by B— Q8, wa.s far better. 

(6) Black ultimately forfeited the game by time in an untenable position. 

Game No. 405. 

Played in the first round, April 4th. 

IRREGULAR OPENING. 

n/dte 

Black 

C. F. BurUle. 

N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 

P— QB3 

2P— Q4 

P— K4? 

3PxP 

Q— R4ch. 

4 QKt— B3 

QxKP 

5KK<^B3 

Q B2 

6B QB4 

B K2 

7 0— O 

P-Q3 

8 R— K sq. 

B— K3 

9BxB 

PxB 

10 Kt— Q4 

11 P— K5 
12KtxKP!(a) 
13 PxP 
14PxB 

15 K<r-K4 

16 Kt— Q6 ch. 

17 P queens ch. 
ISKtxRch. 
19B— B4 

20 Kt— Q6 oh. 

21 P— QB3 

Q-Q2 
P— QB4? 
QxKt 
Q— B4 
QKt— B3 
Q— Kt3 
K— Q2 
RxQ 
K— B sq. 
Kt— Q5 
K— Q2 
Resigns. 

^ 

(a) Beautiful play, aftter which White ha.s an easy task to win. 

466 

BURILLE 8 GAMES. 

Game No. 406. 
Played in the second round, May 3d. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP 

FAWN OPENING. 

WIdte 

Black 

15 P— QKt 3 {<-) 

B Kt2 

N. MacLeod. 

C. F. BurilU'. 

16 Kt— Kt 3 

17 B Kt2 

QR— KB sq. 
R— Kt3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

18 P— Q3 ? 

PxP 

2 P— QB3 

P-Q4 

19 QR— Q sq. 

P— KR4! 

3 KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

20 P— B3 

P— R5 

4Q— R4 

PxP 

21 Kt— R sq. 

BxBP 

5KtxP 

Q-Q4 

22RxP 

RxPcb. 

6B— Kt5 

KKt— K2 

23 K— B sq. 

RxP 

7KtxKt 

KtxKt 

24 Kt-B2 

B B3((/) 

8 0—0 

B Q3 

25R^K6 

R— K sq. 

9 R— K sq. 

0 0 

26 R Kt6 

R K2 

lOBxKt 

QxB 

27 B B3 

K— R2 

llQxQ 

PxQ 

28R— Kt5 

B— Kt6 

12P— QB4(«) 

P— KB4?(i) 

29R— Q2 

B Kt7cb. 

13 Kt B3 

Br-B3 

30 K— Kt sq. 

R— K8 mate. 

14 Kt— K2 

P— B4 

(a) As usual, White gets a bad game in this opening. If 12 Rx P, 12 QB— KB4; 

13 R— K8 (or l.S R-K sq., 13 KR— K sq., followed by B— Q6), 13. . .B— B5; 

and if U R— B3, 14 KR-K sq., with a fine attack. 
(6) QB— KB4 was preferable. 

{c) P — Q3, followed by Kt — B4, would have released him, with a probable draw. 
(rf) B — K5 was more decisive. 

Game No. 407. 

Played in the first round, April 11th. 

RUY 

LOPEZ. 

White. 

Black 

5 0— O 

B K2 

D. M. Martinez. 

C. P. Burille. 

6K1^B3 
7B Kt3 

P QKt 4 
P-Q3 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

8P— Q3 

0 0 

2KKt— B3 

QKt— B3 

9Kt Q5 

B Kt5 

3B— Kt6 

P QR3 

lOKtxKtch. 

BxKt 

4B-R4 

Kt— B3 

11 B— Q5 1 

Q-Q2 

BUBILLE 8 QAHEB. 

467 

12 P— QB3 
13BxKt 
UKtxP 
15QxB 

16 Q— K2 

17 R— Q sq. 

18 B— K3 
19E^Q2 

20 QR— Q sq. 

21 P— B3 

22 Q— B2 

23 P— KB4 
24BxKBP 
25 P— KKt 3 
26BxB 

27 P— Q4 

28 P— Q5 

29 P— K5 

30 Q— QB5 

31 P— Q6 
.32Br-Q5 

33 Q— B7 ! 
34PxP 
35P— QR4! 
36 Q— B5 
37R— B5 
38 E^B sq. ! 

QR— Kt8q.?(a) 

QxB 

PxKt 

KR— Q sq. 

Q-Q3 

R^Q2 

QR— Q sq. 

P— B4 

Q-B2 

B— K2 

R— QB sq. 

PxP?(6) 

B— Q3 

QR— Q sq. 

RxB 

Q-Q2 

P— B5 

R— KKt3 

R— K sq. 

KR— K3 

P— B3 

R— Qsq. 

RxBP 

Q— Ksq. 

Rr-KS 

R— K8 ch. 

Rr-K4 

39 E^Q5 

40 R (Q5)— B5 
41R(Q3)— B3 
42Q^Kt6 
43 QR— B2 
44RxR 
45QxRP 
46QxP 

47 Q— KB5 
48K— Kt2 
49 Q— B3 
SOP— QKt4!(c) 

51 Q— K4 

52 Q— Q5 ch. 

53 Q— K4 ch. 

54 R— Q2 ! (d) 
55QxQ 
56R— Q4 
57R— K4 
58K— B3 
59P— Kt4ch. 
60P— R4 
61P— R6 

62 K— K3 

63 K— Q4 

64 P— Kt 5 

65 K — Q5, and wins. 

R— K7 
Q— K5 
P— KR3 
R— Q2 
RxR 
Q-Q4 
RxP 
Q-K3 
R— Q8 ch. 
Q— QB3 ch. 
QxP 
R— Q2 
R— QB2 
K— R2 
K— Kt sq. 
Q— B3 
RxQ 
K— B2 
K— B3 
K— B4 
K— B3 
P— Kt4 
R— B3 
R— Bsq. 

Rr-B3 

R— B2 

(«) QU — K sq. was now his best play. 

{(h) It was most important to protect the centre by P — B3. 

master coup, 
id) At last the exchange of Queens and a .simple winning ending are forced. 

Game No. 408. 

Played in the second round, May 11th. 

PONZIANI OPENING. 

White 
C. F. BuriUe. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3 P— QB3 

Black 
D. M. Martinez. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— Q3? 

4B— Kt5(a) 
5P— Q4 
6B-Kt5 

7 QKt— Q2 

8 P— KR3 
9PxP 

Kt— B3 

B-Q2 

B— K2 

0-0 

PxP 

QKt— Kt6?(6) 

(a) P— Q4, followed soon by B — Q3, was stronger. 

468 

BUBHiLES OAMBS. 

10 B K2 

P— KR3 

27 QR— R sq. 

Q— Kt2 

11 B K3 

P Q4 

28 P— KB4 

P— B4 

12 P— K5 

Kt-R2 

29 Kt— B3 

PxP 

13 P— QR3 

QKt— B3 

30 R— R6 

Kt-B8q.?(e) 

14 B— Q3 

P— B4? 

31 Q— R2 

Kt— R2 

15P— KKt3?(c 

) B— K3? 

32 P— K6 

KtxP 

16 P— KR4 

P QR3 

33 Kt— K5 

QKt— B sq. 

17 R— QB sq. 

R— B2 

34BxQP 

B-Q3 

18 Q B2 

Kt— B sq. 

35 K— Q2 

Rr-K2 

19 K— K2 

B-Q2 

36KtxP(/) 

QxB 

20 QR— KKt sq. 

K<^K3 

37KtxRch. 

BxKt 

21R— R2 

K— R sq. 

38RxKt 

QxKtPch. 

22 K— K sq. 

Q— KB sq. (d) 

39 B B2 

Q— Q5 ch. 

23KR-Kt2 

QKt— Q sq. 

40B— Q3 

Q Kt7ch. 

24R— R2 

K-Ktsq 

41 B— B2 

25K<^Kt5? 

PxKt 

Dra-wn. 

26PxP 

P— KKt 3 

(6) 9. . . R— K sq. (threatening Kt x KP, followed by B x B, etc. ) ; 10 O— 0, 10 P— Q4; 

11 QBxKt (or 11 P— K5, 11 Kt— K5), 11. . BxB; 12 P— K{), 12 B— Ka, gave 

Black sliglvtly the better game. 
(c) PxP in pa.ssing, followed accordingly by Kt — K6 or B — B2, would have 

given Wliite an excellent attack. 
{d) It was safe and very strong to break through by P — B5. 
(e) Simply P x B, followed by R — KB sq. in reply to Q — E2, would have won 

with ease. 
(/) The wisest course, for he could hardly play for more than a draw which soon 

results from this. 

Game No. 409. 

Played in the second round, May 16th. 

PETROFFS DEFENCE. 

White 

Black 

D. M. Martinez. 

C. F. Burille. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

KK<^B3 

3 KtxP 

P Q3 

4Kt— B3 

KtxP 

6P— Q4 

P Q4 

6B Q3 

B K2 

70 0 

0—0 

8P— QB4 

KKt— B3 

9 QKt— B3 

PxP 

lOBxP 

11 B— K3 

12 R— B sq. 

13 B— K2 

14 KR^K sq. 
16Q— R4 
16Kt— K6! 
17KtxB 
18P— KR3 
19 PxKt 
20Kt-K4! 
21B— Q3 

B— KKt6 
Kt— B8 
Q— Q2 
QR^-Qsq. 
KR— Ksq. 
Q— B4?(a) 
Q— R4(6) 
KtxKt 
P— B4 • 
PxP 
Q— Kt3 
Kt— Kt6 

BUBILLB S OAKE8. 

K— R sq. 

28KtxB 

BxEt 

Kt-Q4 

29BxR 

QxB 

Q-B2 

30Q-Q3 

Kt-B3 

P— KR4 

31PxP 

PxP 

P-R5 

32B— Q2 

Q-92 

p— Re 

33Q— B6 

Besigns. 

469 

22Q— Kt3ch. 

23 B— Kt sq. 

24 Kt— Kt 3 
25BxP! 
26BxP 

27 Kt^B5 

(a) Kt — Q4 would have given him a good attack, whereas this compromises his 
game. 

(b)A desperate answer, but 16...BxB (or 18. . .KtxKt; 17 PxKt, 17BxB;18 
P X Kt); 17 Ktx Kt, was also very disadvantageous. 

HANHAM'S GAMES. 

Game No. 410. 

Played in the first round, March 30th. 

PHILI DOR'S DEFENCE. 

White 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

J. M. Hanhaiii 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

P Q3 

3P— Q4 

Kt-Q2 

4PxP? 

PxP 

5B— B4 

B— Q3(a) 

6Kt— Kt5! 

Kt— R3 

70 0 

0 0 

8P— KR3? 

Q— B3 

9 QKt— B3 

10 B— K3 

11 Kt— B3 

12 Q-Q2 

13 QB— KKt 6! 
14Kt— R4! 

15 B— K2 
16PxKt 

17 P— B3 ! 

18 K— R2 

P^B3 
R— Q sq. ? 
R— K sq. 
Kt— B sq. ? (ft) 
Q— Kt3 
Q— R4 
Kt— Kt 5 
BxP 
B— B4ch. 
B— K3?(c) 

19 P— KKt4, and wins. 

(o)B — K2 is a necessity at this juncture. 
(6) Which loses. B — B sq. made his game well defen.sible. 

(c) An awful blunder that loses the Queen, but, of course, there was no salvation 
for his game. 

Game No. 411. 
Played in the second round, April 29th. 

GIUOCO PIANO. 

White 
.]. M. Hanham. 
IP— K4 
2 KK^-B3 

Block 
J. W. Baird. 
P— K4 
QKt— B3 

3B— B4 
4 P— QB3 
5P— Q3 
6P— QKt4? 

B— B4 
KKt— B3 
P-Q3 
B— Kt3 

HANHAM S QAHES. 

471 

7P— QR4 P— QR3(a) 20B— Kt3 Q— R4 

8 0—0 P— KR3? 21QBr-Qsq. B— K3 

9B— K3 BxB 22E— Q2 Kt— KB2 

lOPxB 0—0 23Kt— B5 Q— Kt3 

llQKt— R3 Q— K2 24 Q— K sq. Kt^Kt4 

12Q— Ksq. K— R2 25KKt— R4 Q— R4 

13B— Kt3 B— Q2 26 B— Q sq. B— Kt5 

14B— B2 Kl^Qsq. 27 B— B2 KR— Q sq. 

16P— Q4 Kt— Ktsq. 28 KKt— B5 Q— K sq. 

16Q— Kt3 Rr-Ksq. 29P— KR3 B— KR4 

17PxP PxP 30P— KR4 Kt-K3 

18 K^-B4 P— KB3 31 QR— B2 

19 KKt— R4 Q— B2 Drawn by mutual consent, (b) 

(a)P— QR4 is superior. 

(6) Black had much the better game and would have been fully justified in 
trying to win. 

Game Xo. 412. 

Played in the second round, May 9th. 
PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

White 
J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3P— Q4 

4PxP? 

5 B— QB4 

6Q— Q3? 

7Kt— Kt5 

8 0-0 

9Q— K2 
lOB— Kt3 
11 P— QB3 
12B— B2 
13 Kt— B3 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

P— K4 
P— Q3 
Kt— Q2 
PxP 
P— QB3 
Q— B2 
Kt— R3 
Kt— B4 
P— QKt 4 ! 
P— QR4 
P— R5 (a) 
P— B3 
Kt— B2 

14 R^K sq. 

15 QKt— Q2 

16 K— R sq. 

17 KKt^Kt sq. 

18 P— KB3 

19 Kt— B sq. 

20 B— K3 

21 BxB 

22 Kt— K3 

23 Q— B2 
24P— KB4?(6) 
25QxP 

26 Q— B sq. 

27 Kt— K2 

28 P— KR3 
29PxB 

B— K3 
P— KKt4 
P— KR4 
P— Kt5 
Kt-Q2 
B— QB4 
Q— R2 
QxB 

R— KKt sq. 
Q— B sq. 
PxP 
Q— Q3 
P— KR5 
P— Kt6?(c) 
BxRP? 

Q-Q7 

(a) Not as good as Kt x B. 

(6) The isolation of his KP greatly weakens his game. 

(c) After P— KR6, followed by P— QR6 and then Q -K4, Black had the better 
winning prospects. 

472 

hanham's games. 

30Q— B4 
31KtxP!(ci) 
32 QI^-Q sq. 

P— KtTch. 

QxB 

QxKtP 

33B^Q2 

Drawn, (e) 

(a) If 31 K— Kt sq., 81 Kt— Kt4, and wins. Or if 31 K— R3, 81 P—Kt 8 queen- 
ing ch., with a strong attack. 

(e) With a little more patience White ought now to have obtained an excellent 
attack, his position being altogether much preferable. 

Game No. 413. 

Played in the first round, April 11th. 

INDIAN 0PP:NING. 

White 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

G. 11. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2P— Q3 

B B4 

3 KKt— B8 

P-Q3 

4B E2 

KKt— B3 

5 0—0 

Kt— B3 

6 P— B3 

B Kt3 

7Q-B2 

B Kt5 

8P— QKt4 

P— QR3? 

9P QR4 

BxKt? 

lOBxB 

K— KR3? 

11 Kt— R3 

P—Kt 4 

12Kt— B4! 

Kt K2 

13 B— K3 

Kt— Kt3 

14 P— R5 

BxB 

15KtxB 

KtxB5 

16 P—Kt 3 

P—Kt 5? 

ITKtxP 

KtxKt 

18 BxKt 
19B— B5 
20 P— B3 ! 
21R— B2 
22B— Kt4 
23PxR 
24 K— R sq. 
25R— B5 

26 QR— KB sq, 

27 Q— Q sq. 
28Q— B3 
29RxKPch.! 
30 Q— B6 ch. 
31QxR 
32QxPch. 

33 Q— R8 ch. 

34 Q— B6 ch. 

35 B^B2 

36 K— Kt 2 

37 Q— B5 

Q— Kt4 
Q-R4 
KR— Kt sq. 
K— K2?(a) 
RxB?(6) 
QxP 
Kt— R6 
R— KKt sq. 
R^Kt2? 
P— R4 
Kt— Kt4 
PxR 
K— Ksq. 
Q-K7 
K— B sq. 
K— K2 
K— K sq. 
Q— Q8 cl 
Q— Kt5 
Resigns. 

(c) 

(a) Though already a Pawn behind, he had a fair chance of making a fight by 

withdrawing Kt— Kt 8. 
(6) 22 . . .Q— Kt 3; 23 P X Kt, 23 P— KR4, offered a better defence. 
(c) He had no good move, but if he meant to hold out, K — Q2 was prc»ferable. 

HANHAM 8 GAMES. 

478 

Game No. 414. 

Played in the second round, May 11th. 

KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

fVliife 

Black 

G. H. D. (fOSHip. J. M. Hanhain. 

1 P— K4 
2P— KB4 
3 QK1^B3 
4Kt— B3 
5B— B4 
6P— Q3 
7 QKt— R4? 
8P— B3 
9 P— QKt 4 

lOPxP 

llKtxKt?(fl) 

12 B— Kt 3 

13B— Kt5 

14 0—0 

15 Q— Q2 
16Kt— Kt2 

17 Kt— B4 

18 B— KR4 

19 Kt— K3 

20 K— R sq. 

P--K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
QKt— Q2 
P— QB3 
KKt^B3 
B— Kt 5 ch. 
B— R4 
B— B2 
QKtxP 
PxKt 
0-0 
Q-Q3 
B— Kt5 
Kt— Q2 
QBr-Ksq. 
Q— Kt3 
B— K3 
B— Kt3 
Q-R3 

21 QB— B2 

22 Q— K sq. 

23 B^Q sq. 

24 Kt— B5 
25BxB 
26 B— KKt 
27K— B3 
28R— R3 
29Q— R4 
30RxQ 
31R— R3 
32R— B3 
33P-KR3 
34P— B4 
35 P— B5 
36BxPch. 
37PxP 

38 R (B3) X 

39 R— K sq 
40K— R2 
41RxP 
42 K— R sq 

Kt— B3 
R— Q sq. 
B— Bsq? 
BxKt 
Kt— Kt5 

sq. B — B sq. 
P— QKt3 
Q— Kt4 
QxQ 
R— Q3 
KR— Q sq. 
Kt— B3 
B— R3! 
KtxP 
PxP 
K— R sq. 
RxP 

R RxR 

Kt— Kt 6 ck 
R^QB6 
Kt— B8 ch. 
Kt— Kt 6 ch. 

Drawn, (b) 

(a) He could well retreat B— Kt 8, and if 11 . . .B— Kt 5; 18 P— Q4. 12 Ktx Kt ch.; 

13 P X Kt, with a strong centre. 
(h) Thore was no more than a draw in the game, and Black rightly decides 

it that way. 

/ 

Game No. 41.5. 
Played in the second round, May 17th. 

White 

VIENNA OPENING. 

Black 

G; H. I). Gossip. J. M. Hanham. 

1 P— K4 P— K4 

2 QKt— B3 B— B4 

3P— B4 

P Q3 

4Kt B3 

Kt-Q2 

5B— B4 

KKt— B3 

6P Q3 

P— B3 

7Q— K2 

Q— K2? 

474 

8P— B5 
9B-Kt3 

10 P— QR4 

11 Kt— Q sq. 

12 B— KKt 5 

13 Kt-K3 

14 B— QB4 

15 0—0 

16 K— R sq. 

(o) His game was already inferior, but QKt— Q2 was surely his \>e»t play here. 
(6) His game was gone. If 22. . .Rr-KKt sq.; 23RxBcli., followe<l by Q— 
Kt 4 cb., etc., also forces mate. 

HANHAK 8 OAHES. 

P— QKt4 

17Kt— Kt4 

P Q4?(o) 

18 B— R2 

PxP 

P— Kt5 

19KtxKtch.! 

PxKt 

B Et3 

20B— R6 

PxKt 

B— QI13 

21RxP 

K— R sq. 

22 R^KKt 3 

B— Kt3(fe) 

B— Kt2 

23B— Kt7ch. 

K— Kt sq. 

0—0? 

24BxPdi9ch. 

mate. 

B-Q sq. 

Game No. 416. 

Played in the first round, March 29th. 
gUKEN 8 BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

White 

Black 

N. MacLeod. 

J. M. Hanham 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 P^QB3 

P Q3? 

3 KKt— B3 

6 K2 

4B K2 ? 

KKt— B3 

5 0-0 

0-0 

6Q— B2 

Kt— B3 

7P Q4 

B Kt5 

8P— Q5 

Kt— Kt sq. 

9P— KR3 

B R4? 

10 Kt— R2 

B— Kt3 

11 Kt— Q2 ? 

KtxQP! 

12Q— Kt3 

Kt B5! 

13B— Kt4 

P— Kt3 

14 P— KKt 3 

Kt— R4 {a) 

15BxKt 

BxB 

16 P— KB4 

PxP 

17 Q— Q5 

PxP! 

18QxR 

P X Kt ch. 

19KxP 

P— QR4 

20Q Q6 

B K71 

21R— B2 

P QB3 

22Q— Kt3 ' 

23 Kt— B3 

24 Q— B4? 

25 Q— K2 

26 B— B4 

27 Kt— Q2 

28 Q— B3 
29R— K2 

30 P— K5 

31 R— KKt sq. 
32QxKt 
33Q— Kt4 
34Q— B3 
35Q— K3 

36 K— R sq. 
37Q— Q4 
38 Q— B5 
39R— Kt4(6) 
40RxQP 
41K— Kt2 

42 Q— B2 

43 K— B sq. 
And after a 

White resigned. 

B— R4 
B— Kt3 
P— Kt4 
Kt— Q2 
Kt^B4 
R— Ksq. 
B— R5 
Q— K2 
Kt^Q6! 
KtxB 
PxP 
P— KB4 
P— K5 
Q— B2 ch. 
P— B5 
B— B3 
P— K6 
PxKt(c) 
R— K8 ch. 
R-K4 
B— K5 ch. 
P— B6 
few more moves 

(a)Kt — Q6 was stronger. 

HANHAM S GAMES. 

476 

(h) If 89 Kt—BS, 89 B— K5; 40 K— Kt2 (or 40 R— KB sq., 40 R— K4, followed by 

Q-^3, etc.), 40. . .R— K4; 41 Q— R8, 41 R— Kt4 ch., and wins, 
(e) Still better was R^E4, followed by Q— Q3. 

Game No. 417. 

Played in the second round, April 23d. 
TWO KNIGHTS' DEFENCE. 

White, 

Black 

, J. M. Hanham. 

N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt^B3 

QKt— B3 

3B B4 

Kt— B3 

4P Q3 

B B4 

5P— B3 

0—0 

6 0—0 

P-QR3? 
PxP 

7P-Q4 

8PxP 

B— R2 

9P-K5 

Kt— K sq. 

lO.B KKt5 

Kt— K2 

11 K<^B3 

P— E3 

12B B4 

P— KKt4 

13 B KKt3 

Kt-B4 

U P— Q5 

P— KR4! 

15Q-B2 

KKt--Kt2! 

16 B— Q3 

17 PxP 

18 Kt— K4 
19KKtxKtP 
20RPxP 
21Q— B3 
22 Kt— B6 ch. ! 
23BxKt 
24Q— B4 
25BxKt 

26 Q— R4 ch. 

27 Kt— R5 ch. 

28 R— K sq. 
29Q— Kt4 
30 Kt-K4 
31Q— Kt5 

32 KKt— B6 <jh. 

33 Kt X Q ch., and 

P— Q3 
PxP 
P— R5! 
PxB 
KtxKtP ! 
KtxR?(a) 
K— Rsq. 
B— Q2 
Kt— B4 
BxB 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt sq. 
B— Kt3?(6) 
Q— Kt3?(c) 
QxKtP 
K— R2 
QxKt 
wins. 

(a) Black has defended remarkably well and should have won easily but for this 
error, Kt x Kt, followed by P — KB4, would hare broken the adverse attack, 
and Black remained a piece ahead. 

if), P— B8 was better. 

(c) P — KB4 would have won still. 

Game Np. 418. 

Plajed in the first round, April 5th. 
PHILIDOR'8 DEFENCE. 

WhU^ 

D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 
a KKt— B3 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

P— K4 
P— Q3 

3P-Q4 
4Kt— B3 
5B— K3 
6B— K2 
7P— KR3 

Kt— 02 
P— QB3 
B— K2 
KKt— B3 
P— KB8? 

476 

8Q— Q2 

9P— QR3 
10 P— Q5 ! 
llPxP 
12BxP 
13KtxB 
14 Q— Q5 
15QxR! 

16 Kt-B7 cb. 

17 Kt X Q 

18 K— K2 

19 QR— QB sq. 

20 KB— Q sq. (a) 

21 P— QB3 
22P— KKt3 
23R— Q3? 

24 QR— Q sq. 

25 R— QB sq. 

26 R— KKt sq. 

(a) P — QB4 was vjwtly superior. 

1 6) After a remarkably clever and patient defence against large udds Black 

incautiously allows an inroad into his game to be broken, which enables 

White to make good use of his being the exchange ahead. 

HANHAH 8 OAVES. 

P— QKt4 

27 B Bsq. 

B B4 

P-QR4 

28 R— Kt 2 

P— KtS 

B— Kt2 

29 Kt— Kt sq. 

P— R4 

BxP 

SOP— R4 

P— B5?(t) 

BxB 

31PxP 

PxP 

KtxP 

32 P— B3 

K— K4 

QKt B3 

33 K— K sq. ! 

BxKt 

QxQ 

34RxB 

R— KKt sq. 

K— Q2 

35PxKt 

PxP 

RxKt 

36 R Q4 

P— Kt6 

R— QB sq. 

37RxRP 

P— KB6 

K-K3 

38 R— R5 ch. 

K— K3 

P Q4 

39 R— R6 cb, ! 

K— B4 

P— R5 

40RxKtcb.! 

KxR 

Kt— K sq. 

41 B Kt5ch. 

K— K4 

P— KB4 

42RxP 

QKt-KB3 

And after a 

few more moTes 

P— KKt4 

Black resigned. 

R— QKt sq. 

Game No. 419. 

Played in the second round, May 4th. 

KING'S BISHOP GAME. 

fVhite 

Black 

J. M. Hanham. 

U. M. Martinez. 

1 P-K4 

P— K4 

2B B4 

QKt— B3 (a) 

3P— QB3 

B-B4 

4Q-K2 

Q K2 

5K^-B3 

P Q3 

6P-Q3 

B K3 

7 KB QKt 5 

B-Q2 

8B— R4 

P— KR3? 

9 QKt^Q2 

Kt-B3 

10 B— B2 

0—0 

110 0 

Kt— R2 

12 P— QKt 4 

B KtS 

13 P— QR4 
14Kt— B4 
15B— K3 
16BxB 

17 Kt— K3 

18 P— Q4 

19 PxP 

20 Kt— B4 

21 Q— K3 
22QxR 
23B— Kt3 
24RxB 

25 R— Q sq. 

26 P— B3 

27 Q— KtS! 

P— QR3 
B— R2 
Kt— Q sq. 
RxB 

P— KKtS 
PxP 
B— Kt5 
BxKt! 
B— K7 
BxR 
K— Kt2 
Kt— B3 
Kt— R4?(6) 
P— B3 

HANHAM's GAME& 477 

28K«^Q6 K— Rsq. 33PxP Kt-Q5(c0 

29P— R5 Kir-B5?(c) 34PxKt P— K5 

30K— B2 P— R4 35KtxKP PxP 

31 Q_B8 ! P— B4? 36 Kt— B5, and wins. 

32P— Kt3 Kt(B5)— K3 

(a) KKt— B3 is here justly preferred by all authorities. 

(6) Kt — Q2 was now much superior. 

(c) Kt — Kt2, followed by Kt^K sq., was a better plan. 

(r/) Desperate, but even after dd...Px P; 84 Kt x BP, 84RxKt; 35BxKt, 
his game was also untenable. 

GOSSIP'S GAMES. 

Oame No. 420. 

Played in the first round, April 8th. 

VIENNA OPENING. 

White 

Black 

G. H. D. Gossip. J. W. Baird. 

1^— K4 
2 QKt— B3 
3P— B4 
4 Kt— B3 
5B— Kt5 
6 P— KR3 
7BxKt?(a) 
8PxP 
9P— Q3 

10 Q— K2 

11 B— K3 . 
12P— KKt4 

13 O-O— O 

14 KR-B sq, 

15 B— Q2 
16Q— R2 
17 Q-B2 
18B— K3 
19BxPch. 
20B— B5 
21PxB 

22 K— Q2 
23K— K3 

24 R— QR sq, 

25 K— K2 
26B^R2 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
QKt— B3 
B— KKt5 
B— Q2? 
BxB 
PxP 
P— KR3? 
Q— K2 
Kt-B3 
P— KKt4 
O— O— O 
B— Kt5 
Kt— Ksq. 
P— B3 
K— Kt sq. 
BxKt? 
K— R sq. 
Q— K3 
QxRP 
B— R5 
Q-K3?(c) 
Q— B3 
K— Kt sq. 
K— Bsq. 

27 P— B4 ! 
28KtxPch.! 
29 Q— B5 ch. 
30RxB 

31 B X Kt 

32 R— R7 ? 

33 Q— B7 ch. 

34 R X Q ch. 
36 R— Kt 7 
36R— R2 
37R— Kt2 

38R— KKt6 
39RxRP 

40K— Q2 
41 K— B3 
42R— Kt5! 
43R— R7 
44R— KR6 
45RxKKtP 
46R— Kt2 
47 R— Kt 7 
48P— Kt5 
49R— R2 
SOP— Kt6 
51R— Kt8 
52R— R7 
53PxPch. 

K-Q2 

PxKt 

Q— K3 

Kt— Q3 

PxB 

R— QKt sq. 

QxQ 

K— B3 

K— Kt3 

K— B3 

R(R8q.)— 

R— B5 

Bsq.? 

R(Ktsq.)— 

KBsq. 
R— B7 ch. 
R(Bsq.)— B6 
R— B3 
R— B2 
R— R7? 
R (B2)— B7 
RxRP 
P— Kt3 
R— K7 
R (R6)— R7 
R(R7)— Kt7 
R— Kt6 
P— Kt4 
KxP 

54R— QKtSch. K— B3 
55P— Kt7 R(K7)— 

56 R (Kt 8)— Kt 7 R— Kt 8 
67R— B7cb. K— Kt3 
58 R{R7)-Kt7ch. K— R3 

(a) Being a more ahead it was better to play P — Q8. 
(6) B X P ch. was now the right play, 
(c) He coold hare safely taken tHe BP. 

00S8IF8 

GAMES. 

59R— Kt4 

R: 

<KtP 

Kt7 

60 R— B6 ch. 
61RxP 

K- 

-R2 

And after a 

few 

more 

Black resigned. 

479 

moves 

Game No. 421. 

Played in the second round, May 7th. 
DOUBLE RUY LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

J. W. Baird. 

0. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2KKt B3 

QKt— B3 

3K<^B3 

it-B3 

4 B— Kt 5 

B Et5 

6 0-0 

0-0 

6P Q3 
7BxKt 

P— Q3 

PxB 

8Kt— K2 

B— QB4 

9P— B3 

B— Kt3 

lOKKt— Kt3 

P— KR3? 

11 Kt— K sq. 
12P— KR3 
13Q— B3 
14Kt— B5 
15QxB 

16 Q— B3 

17 B— K3 
18BxB 

19 Kt— B2 

20 Q— K3 

21 Q— B3 

Kt— Kt6? 
Q-R5 
Kt— B3 
BxKt 
P— KKt3 
K— Kt2 
Kt— R2 
BPxB?(o) 
Ki^Kt4 
Kt— K3 
Q— KB5 

Drawn by mutual consent, (b) 

(a) We would have considerably preferred Black's game if he had retaken with 
the RP. 

(b) An even position. 

Game No. 422. 

Played in the second round, May 20th. 
KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

White Black 

G. H. D. Gossip. J. W. Baird. 

1 P— K4 P— K4 

2 P— KB4 B— QB4 

3 QKt-B3 

P Q3 

4K«^B3 

KKt— B3 

5B— B4 

0—0 

6P— Q3 

B— KKt5 

7P— KR3 

BxKt 

4B0 

OOS8IP8 

GAMES. 

8QxB 

Kt— B3 

21 P Q4 

Kt-B3 

9B K3?(o) 

BxB 

22 P— B3 

PxP 

lOQxB 

KKt— R4 

23QxP 

QR— KB sq. 

UPxP 

KtxP 

24RxR 

QxR 
Q— B5 

12B— Kt3 

Q— R5 ch. 

25 K— K2 

13 K— Q2 

Kt— Kt6 

26R— Kt3 

P— Kt3 

14 KE— K so. 

K— R sq. 

27 Q— B3 

Q R3 

15 Kt— K2 

KtxKt 

28 Q K3 

Q— R4 ch. 

16RxKt 

P— KB4 

29R— B3 

K— Kt2 

17 QR— K aq. 

P— B5 

30 K— B2 

Q— R5 ch. 

18 Q B2 

Q— R3 

31K— Kt2 

RxR 

19 R— KB sq. 

P— B6 disch. ? 

32QxR 

Q Kt4cL. 

(ft) 

33 K— R2 

Q— Q7 ch. 

20R K3 

R B3 

Drawn. 

(a)Kt — K2 was much perferable. 

(6) The BP formed his chief strength, and he should not have subjected it to an 
exchange. 

Game No. 423. 

Played in the first round, April 6th. 

BUT LOPEZ. 

White 

Black 

Q. H. D. Gossip. N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 
2KKt-B3 
3B— Kt5 
4B— R4 
5 0— O 
6BxKt? 

7 KtxP 

8 P— QB3 
9P— Q4 

10 P— KB3 

11 P— KB4 
12B— K3 

13 PxP 

14 Q— B3 
15QxKt 

16 Q— B2 

17 Kt— B4 

18 Kt— B3 

19 Kt— Q2 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
P— QR3 
Kt— B3 
B— B4 
QPxB 
KtxP 
0-0 
B— Q3 
Kt— B3 
P— B4! 
PxP 
K1^Q4! 
KtxB 
R— Ksq. 
P— KB3 
B— B sq. ! 
P— QKt4 
B— Kt2 

20 Kt— Kt 3 

21 QR— Q sq. 
22K«^B5? 

23 KtxB 

24 P— QKt 3 

25 KR— K sq. ? 
26PxB 

27 RxR 

28 Q— K3 

29 K— B2 
30QxQ 

31 K— K3 

32 R^QB sq. 
33R-B4 

34 P— KR3 
35P— Kt4 
36 PxP 
37P— R3 
38R— R4 
39RxP(R3) 

40 K— Q4 

41 R— R sq. 

R— B sq. 
B— Q4 
P— Kt5 
QxKt 
P-QR4 
BxKt 
RxRch. 
R— Qsq. 
Q-Q5 
K— B2 
RxQ 
R— Q4 
K— K3 
P— KB4! 
K— Q2 
P— Kt3 
PxP 
PxP 
RxP 
K— B3 
K— Kt4 
K— Kt5 

GOSSIP 8 GAMEa 

481 

P— B3 

48 R— R so, 
49K— Kt5 

R— Kt 7 (a) 

IU-B6 

K— Kt6 

RxP 

50P— B5 

R KtS 

P-R5 

61RxP 

KxR 

P— R6 

52 P— R5 

P— B4, 

P— R7 

and wins, (h 

42P— R4 
43 R— QKt sq. 
44K— K5 
45 R— KR sq. 
46KxP 
47 K— Kt 4 

(a) Obviously, K — R6 saved time. 

(b) A creditable victory in a closely-fought game. 

Game No. 424. 

Played in the second round, May 6th. 

QUEEN'S BISHOP PAWN GAME. 

WMte 

Black 

N. MacLeod. Q. H. D. Gossip. 

IP— K4 
2P— QB3 
3 KK^-B3 
4KtxP 
5P— Q4 
6KtxP 
7B— K3 
8Kt— Q2 
9Q— B3 

10 B— K2 

llQxQ 

12 QKt-B4 

13KtxKt 

14BxB 

15 0—0—0 

16RxEt 

17 Kt— B4 ! 

18 K— B2 
19P— KKt3 

20 Kt— R3 

21 K— Q sq. 
22PxB 

P— K4 

P-Q4 

PxP? 

Q— Q4 

P X P en pass. 

KKt— B3 

B— Q3 

0—0 

Kt— B3 

B— KB4 

KtxQ 

KtxB 

BxKt(o) 

Ktr— K4 

KtxBch. 
P— KB4 
B— B5 ch. 
KEU-K sq. ? 
P— QKt4 
R— K7 ch. ? 
RxKtP 
RxBP 

23 Rr-K sq. (b) 
24R-Q2 
25KtxP 
26KtxBP 

27 K— K2 

28 K— Q3 (c) 

29 KxR 

30 K— Q3 

31 P— B4 
32K— Q4? 
33 K— K5 
34K— Q5 

35 K— B6 

36 P— B5 

37 Kt— K6 
38RxR 
39Kt— Kt5 
40K— Q6 ' 

41 Kt— B3 

42 I'— B6 

43 P— B7 

44 P queens ch. 

45 Kt— Kt 5 ch. 

46 Q— B2 ch. ! 

47 Kt— K4 ch. ! 

RxKRP 
R— R6 
Br-QKt sq. 
R— Kt 8 ch. 
R— R7 ch. 
RxRch. 
R— Kt 7 ch. 
RxP 
P— KR4 
R— KB7 
R— QB7 
R— Q7 ch. 
P— R5 
R— Q5 
R— K5 
PxR 
i»— K6 
P— K7 
P— R6 
P— R7 
RP queens ? 
K— R2 
K— Kt3 
K— B3 
K— B2 

(a) The Bishop should have retreated to K8. 

(6) The preservation of his KBP by B — Q2 would have facilitated matters for 

him. 
(c) A remarkably pretty position. 

482 

0088IPS GAMES. 

48 Q— B4 ch. ! K— B sq. 

49 Q— B8 ch. (f/) K— B2 

50 Q— K6 ch. K— B sq. 

51 Q— K7 ch. 

52 Q— K8 ch. 

53 Kt— Kt 5 ch. 

K— Kt »q. 
K— R2 

Besi^is. 

^ll) The ending after (]neeiiing his Pawn is pluytnl (juite with surprising ingouiiity 
by the youtiiful competitor. It was given as a stmly in vuiioiis Clicss 
columns, and it (juite (leserved the distinction. 

(iainc No. 42."). 

Playetl iu the fir.sfc round, April 13th. 

Ul'Y lAH'F/A. 

White 

Jilack 

1). M. Martinez. 

G. H. D. Gossip, 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

QKt B3 

3B Kt5 

P-Q3 

4P— B3 

B-Q2 

5Q K2 

KKt K2 

6P— Q4 

Kl^-Kt3 

7B K3 

B— K2 

8 P— KR3 

0-0 

9 P— Q5 ? 

Kt— Kt sq. 

10 P— KKt 4? 

Kt— R5 

llKtxKt 

BxKt 

12 B Q3 

P— QB3 

13 P— QB4 

Kt R3 

14 Kt— B3 

Ki^Kt5 

15 B Ktsq. 

PxP 

16BPxP 

B KKt 4 

17 0—0 

BxB 

18QxB 

Q-R5 

19K— Kt2 

P— KR4 ! 

20 P— B3 

P— B3 

21 P— R3 

Kt-R3 

22P— Kt4 

K— B2 

23 B Q3 

R KRsq. 

24 R— R sq. 

Kt-B2 

25 QR— QB sq. 

P QKt 3 

26 Kt— K2 

QR— QB sq. 

27 Kt— Kt 3 

P— Kt3 

28 B— K2 
29RxR 

30 BxKt 

31 R— QB sq, 

32 Rr-B7 ch. 
33PxP 
34KtxB 
35P— B4?(/^) 

36 Q— B3 

37 K— R2 
38R— R2 
39 R— KB2 
40R— Kt2 
41RxR 

42 Q— K2 

43 Q— QB2 

44 Q-Q3 
45K— Kt2 

46 Q— QB3 

47 Q— B6 ch. 

48 Q— K6 oh. 

49 Q— Q7 ch. 
50Q— Kt4 

51 Kt— R2 (r) 

52 Q— K6 ch. 

53 Q— K7 ch. 

54 Q— B8 ch. 
55Kt— Kt4 
56 K— R2 

Kt— Kt4? 
RxR 
BxB 

R— KR sq. 
K— B sq. 
B— B8 ch. ? (a) 
RxP 
PxP 

R— Kt4ch. 
Q-K8 
Q— R5 
R— R4 
R— Kt4 
PxR 
Q— R sq. 
Q-R8 
Q-K8 
Q-R5 
Q— R4 
K— Kt sq. 
K— Kt2 
K— Kt sq. 
K— Kt2 
K— B3 
K— Kt2 
K— R sq. 
K— Kt2 
P— B6 ch. 
Resigns. 

(rt) The sacrifice was difficult to answer, but still it wa.s not sound. 

(6) Ci— K2 instead would have .s<M)ner enabled him to get safe, with a piece ahead. 

(f) The settler. White has now an easy t»»sl< to win. 

GOSSIP 8 GAMES. 

(Jiiuie 

No. 436. 

Plaved iu the second round, May 14th. 

RUY 

IX)FEZ. 

»7/iV»- 

lilaA- 

31 PxP 

P-Kt3 

G. H. I). (lossip. 1). M. Mnrtinex. 

32R— B3 

33 R— Q sq. 

34 R— KB2 

R— Q2 
R— Rsq. 

IP— K4 

P— K4 

QR— Q sq. 

2 KKi^B3 

QKt^B3 

35P— KKt3 

K-B2 

3B -Kt5 

Kt B3 

36R^R2 

R— QKt sq. 

40 0 

KtxP 

37 K— B2 

R— Kt4 

5P-Q4 

B-K2 

38 K— K2 

KR^Kt2 

6R Ksq.' 

Kt^Q3 

39 B— Q4 

Rr-R4! 

7PxP 

KtxB 

40RxR 

KtxR 

8P— QR4 

Ki^QS! 

41 K— K3 

R— Kt7 

9KtxKt 

0 0(«) 

42 R Q2 

RxR 

10 Kt— B5 

P Q4 

43KxR 

K— Kt2 

UKtxBcli. 

QxKt! 

44 B Kt6 

Kt-B3 

12 Kt— B3 {h) 

B K3 

45P— KR4? 

P— R3? 

13B B4 

Q— Kt5 

46 B B6 

P— R4! 

14 Q-Q2 

KR— K sq. 

47 K— K3 

K— B2 

15Kt^Kt5? 

QxQ 

48K Q2 

K— K sq. 

16BxQ 

QR— B sq. 

49 K— B2 

K-Q2 

17P— QB3? 

P— QR3 

50K— Kt2 

Kt— Kt sq. 

18Kt— Q4 

Kt— R4! 

51 B R7 

Kt— R3 

19 QR Qsq. 

B— Q2 

52 B K3 

K— B3 

20 B KB4 

P-QB4 

53 K— B2 

Kt— B4 

21 Kt— B3 

B K3 

54 B B2 

Kt— K5 

22Kt— Kt5 

Kt— Kt6 

55 B— K sq. 

K— B4(r) 

23KtxB 

PxKt 

56 K— B sq. 

P— Q5 

24R--Q3 

P— B5 

57PxPch. 

KxP 

25R— Kt3 

P— QKt4 

58P— Kt4 

PxP 

26PxP 

PxP 

59P— R5 

PxP 

27 B R6 

R— K2 

60 P— B5 

KxP 

28B— KKt5 

R KB2 

61 PxP 

KxP 

29B K3 

P QKt5 

62 Resigns. 

30 P— B4 

PxP 

(o)If»...KtxKt; lOQxKt, 10 0—0; 

11 B— B4, with an 

excellent game. 

(6) If 12QxP, 

12R— Q.sq., followed 

by QxP wherevc 

)r White's Queen 

retreat to. 

(c) A beautiful 

ending. 

483 

may 

MAETINEZ'S GAMES. 

(lame No. 437. 

Played in the first round, April 2d. 

BUY 1X)PEZ. 

White 
J. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 

2 KK«^B3 

3 B— Kt 5 

4 0-0 
5Kt— B3 
6BxKt 
7KtxP 
SQKtxKt 
9 P— Q4(a) 

10 R— K sq. 
llKKt— B3! 
12RxB 
13 B— B4 
14RxR ch. 

15 Q— Q3 

16 Q— Kt 3 

17 Kt— K5 
18Q— KB3? 
19 R— QB sq. 
20Q— KKt3 

Black 
1). M. Martinez. 

P— K4 
QKt— B3 
Kt— B3 
B— K2 
0—0? 
QPxB 
KtxP 
Q-Q4 
QxQKt 
Q— KR5?(6) 
Q— R4 
B— Kt5 
KR— K sq. 
RxR 
B— B4 
P— KRS 
B— K3 
Q-B4 
B-Q4 
P— KKt4 

21 B— K3 
22Kt— Kt4 

23 P— B4 

24 P— B5 ! 

25 Kt— B2 

26 P— QB4 

27 Q— B3 

28 Kt— K4 

29 P— QKt 3 

30 Kt— B3 

31 Q— B2 

32 P— Kt 3 

33 R— KB sq. 

34 B— Q2 

35 R— K sq. 
36BxR 

37 P— Q5 

38 Kt— K4 ? 

39 Kt— B3 
40B— Q2 

41 Q— K3 

42 Q— K4 

43 Kt X Q, and 

P— KB3 
Q— Kt3 
P— KR4 
Q— Kt2 
Q-R2 
B— B2 
K— Kt2 
P— QKt3 
P— R5 
B— R4 
P— R6 
B— Kt5 
K— Kt sq. 
Q— Q2 
RxRch. 
K— B2? 
P-QB4 
Q— K2 
Q-K4 
P— QR3 
QxBP 
QxQ 
win8. 

(«) He could have also captured at once either BP and remained with a Pawn 
ahead, but probably Bishops of opposite colors would have ensued after the 
exchanges, with a drawy game. 

MABTINEZ S GAMES. 

485 

(6) A fearful blunder which loses a piece. His game is, of course, untenable 

against ordinary play. 
(.c) He could have safely cleared the Pawns on the Q side. 

Game No. 428. 

Played in the second round, April 27tb. 

BUY LOPEZ. 

White Black 

I). M. Martinez. J. W. Baird. 

1 P— K4 P— K4 

2 KKt— B3 QKt— B3 
3B— Kt6 P— QR3 
4B— B4 Kt— B3 

6 P— Q3 B— B4 
6P— B3 P— QKt4 

7 B— B2 P— Q4 
8PxP KtxP 
9 0—0 0—0 

10 Q— K2 R— K sq. 

11 B— K3 B— Q3 

12 Kl^Kt 5 P— KR3 ? (a) 
13Q— B3! B— K3 
14KtxB PxKt 

15 Kt— Q2 QKt— K2 

16 QR— K sq. QKt— B4 

17 Kt— K4 R— KB sq. 
18Q— Kt4 Q— K2 

(a)QKt— K2 was his best defence. 

(b) Black, obviously, could not capture twice on account of the ultimate pinning 

of his Queen by B— QKt8. 

19 P— KKt 3 
20Q— Kt6 
21R— K2 
22 KR— K sq. 
23Q— Kt4 
24Q— R5 
25Q— Kt6 
26 B— B sq. 
27Q— R5 
28Q— R3 
29 Kt— Kt 5 ch. 
30KtxR 
31Q— Kt4 
32Q— B3 
33P— Q4!(6) 
34RxP! 
35Q— KB5 
36B— Kt3 
37BxP 
38BxPch., and 

R— B2 
R— Ksq. 
Q— Q2 
KKt— K2 
K— Rsq. 
Kfr-Q4 
K— Kt sq. 
QKt— K2 
Kt— QB3 
K— R2? 
K— Kt sq. 
QxKt 
Kt— KB3 
Q— Q2 
PxP 
Kt— K4 
P— Q6 
K— R sq. 
9— B3 

unna 

Wins. 

486 

MABUNEZ S GAMES. 

Game No. 429. 

White 
N. Macljpod. 

IP— K4 

2 P— QB3 

3 KKfc— B3 
4KtxP 

5 Kt— Kt 4 
6KtxKtch. 
7 Q— R4 cb. ! 
SQxPcli. 
9B— K2 

10 Q— B3 

11 P-Q4 

12 0— O 

13 R X B ! 

14 B— K3 

15 B— QKi 5 

16 P— B4 
ITQxRP 
18 B— R4 

Played in the first rotind, April Ist. 

QU KEN'S BISHOP PAWN (iAMK. 

Black 

D. M. Martinez. 

P— K4 
P-Q4 
PxP? 
B— Q3 
KKt— B3 ? 

xKt 

t— B3 
K— Q sq. 
B— KB4? 
R— Ksq. 
Q— Kt3 
BxKt? (a) 
P— B3 (/>) 
P— KR4 
R— QKt sq. 
Q— K5 
P— R3 
P— QKt 4 

19 PxP 

20BxP 

21 Q— R3 cb. (c) 

22BxKtcb. 

23 P— KKt 3 

24 PxP 

25 KR— B sq. cb. 
26PxP 

27 Q— Kt 2 

28 P— KR3 
29Q— Kt4 

30 R— B4 ! (e) 

31 R^R4 cb. 

32 Q— Kt 2 

33 R^R5 ! 

34 R— Kt 5 cb. 

35 R— QB sq. 

36 R— B4 ! 

37 B— B sq. 

38 P— Kt 3 !, and 

PxP 

K-Q2 

P— B4 

KxB 

P— B5 

P— Kt4(f/) 

K— Kt2 

K— R2 

Q-B4 

R— KRsq. 

Q-Q4 

QR— KB sq. 

K— Kt sq. 

R— B6 

Q— K5 

K— R2 

KRxP 

Q— KtSch. (/■) 

QxRP 

wins, (g) 

<i> \-i... II— KS; n Q— Kt4, 13 B X KtP: 14 K x B, 14 Rx B gave him an excellent 
KHinc. 

('') Black probaldy sees too late tliat he has still further weakened himself by the 
exi-hunge. He could not take tl;e Rook on account of the replj' B — Kt 5 ch. 

('•) (i— Br, f;>!lo\ved by Q— QB4, was better play. 

Ill) B.ack St rubifies desperately, but without effect, against his youthful opponent, 
who h;>Uls his advantii'^n tightly. 

in Ingenious. Black cimnot take the Rook on account of P — QSdisch., 
winnini^ the Queen. 

I /■') O! course, if :$« . . . B— R7 ch. : 37 Q x B, and if R x Q, White mates by R— R4. 

(./I A rc.narkabl^- fine game. 

I 

HABTINEZ S GtiXES. 

487 

<iHin« No. 430. 

Played in the second round, April 26th. 
FHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

White. 

D. M. Martinez. 

IP— K4 
2 KKt— B3 
3P— Q4 
4QxP 
5 B— QKt 5 
6BxKt 

7 Kt— B3 

8 0—0 
9Kt— Q5 

lOKtxB 
UP— K5! 
12KtxP 

13 Q— K3 

14 Q— KKt 3 
ISKtxB 

16 R— K sq. ch. 
17B— B4 

Black 

N. MacLeod. 

P— K4 
P-Q3 
PxP 
QKt— B3 
B— Q2 
BxB 
Kt— B3 
P— KR3?(a) 
B— K2 
QxKt 
PxP 
R— Qsq. 
Kt— Q4 
Q— B3 
PxKt 
Kt— K2 
0—0 

ISBxBP 
19B— K5 
20B— B3! 
21RPxQ 
22B— Kt4! 
23R— K2 
24 QR— K sq. 
25P— R4 
26B— B5 

27 P— QKt 4 

28 P— QB4 

29 P— B3 

30 K— B2 

31 P— R5 
32ExKt 
33RxR 

34 P— Kt 5 

35 PxP 

36 P— R6, and 

R— Q7? 
Q— Kt3 
QxQ 
R-Q2 
R— Ksq. 
P— B3 
K— B2 
R— B2 
R^Kt2(6) 
P— R3 
R— B2 
K— B sq. 
K— B2 
K— B sq. 
RxR 
RxR 
BPxP 
PxP 

wins. 

J 

(a) More than ordinary loss of time here, as will be seen after the excellent 
manner in which the opponent now assumes the ojEensive. 

(6) His game is blocked and broken up. The adverse extra Pawn wins with ease. 

J. W. BATRD'S GAMES, 

dame No. 481. 

Played iu the first round, March 26th. 

RUY LOPEZ. 

White 
3. W. Baird. 

IP— K4 

2 KKt— B3 

3 B— Kt 5 
4BxKtch.? 
5P-Q4 

6 0—0 
7PxP 

8 B— K3 

9 QKt— Q2 
lOQxKt 
IIQ— B3! 

Black 
X. MacLeod. 

P— K4 

QKt— B3 

P— Q3 

PxB 

Kt— B3 

KtxP 

P-Q4 

P— KR3? 

KtxKt 

P— KKt4?(o) 

B— QKt2 

12 P— K6 ! 

13Q— Q3 

14 Q— R7 (6) 

15QxP 

16QxBP 

17 Q— K5 

ISBxKtP 

19 P— K7 

20QxBP 

21QxB 

22QxBch. 

23QxPch. 

24QxQ 

P— B3 
R— KKtsq. 
R— Kt2 
Q-Q3? 
Q-K2 
R— Kt3 
Q-R2 
B— Kt2 
B— B3 
Q— Kt2 
KxP 
K— 93 
Resigns. 

((!) lie uuf^ht to have developfHl B- K2, followed by O— O already a few mov€« 
H^o, and ills position was then a little preferable. 

{!>) White plays all this remarkably well, and he now forces the game in a few 

J. W. BAIBD 8 OAJIES. 

489 

Game No. 483. 

Played in the second round, April 19tb. 

INDIAN OPENING. 

W/n(e 
N. MacLeod. 

IP— K4 

2 P— Q3 

3 KKt— B3 
4B-K2 
5Kt— B3 
6P— QR3? 

7 P— KR3 (a) 

8 KKt— R2 
9B— K3? 

lOPxB 

11 K— Q2 

12 Q— K sq. 

13 R— KB sq. 
URxRch. 
15KtxP 
16Kt— Kt3 
17 R— Q sq. 
18P— QKt4? 

19 B— B3 

20 K— K2 

21 K— B sq. 

22 Q— QB3 
23B— Kt4 
24PxP 
26BxBch. 
26Kl^Kt4 
27P— K4? 
28PxP 
29KtxKtcli. 
30 K— Kt sq. 
31Q— B5 

32 K— R2 

?(6) 

Black 

J. W. Baii-d. 

P— K4 
B— B4 
P-Q3 
KKt— B3 
P— KR3? 
0-0 
QKt— B3 
Ki^R2 
BxB 
Q— R5 ch. 
P— KB4 
Q-Q sq 
PxP 
QxR 
P-Q4 
Q— QB4 
P— QKt4 
Q— Kt3 
B— K3 
P— QR4 
Ki^K2 
Q-Q3?(c) 
PxP 
P— QB3 
QxB 
Kt— Kt3 
Ki^B3 
PxP 
QxKtch. 
Kt— B5 
Q— Kt4 
P— R4 

33 E— Kt sq. 

34 Kt— K2 ! 
36KtxKt 

36 K— R sq. 

37 R— K sq. 

38 Q— B7 
39Q— Kt7! 

40 Q x QKtP 

41 Q— Kt 8 ch. 
42QxP 
43RxQ 
44K— R2 
45RxP 
46P— Q4 

47 K— Kt sq. 

48 R— K5 ch. 
49R— K4 
50R— Kt4 

51 K— B2 

52 K— K3 

53 K— Q3 

54 K— B4 
55Rr-K4 
56 R— K2 
57K— Q3 
58 K— K3 
59R— R2 
60R^KB2I 

61 K— K4 

62 Rn-QB2 
63R-Q2 
64 R-KB2 
65R— Q2 

66 R— QB2 

67 P— Q5 ch. (e) 

P— R5 

R^Kt sq. (d) 
QxKtch. 
Q-B2 
Q— K3 
R— Ksq. 
R^QB sq. 
RxP 
R— Bsq. 
QxQ 
R— B8 ch. 
R— QKt8 
RxP 
K— B2 
K— K3 
K-Q3 
P— Kt4 
R— Kt4 
R— B4 ch. 
K-Q4 
K-Q3 
K— B3 
K-Q3 
R— R4 
R— KB4 
R^KB sq. 
R— B4 
R^QR4 
K-K3 
R— R6 
R— R5 
R— Kt5 
R-R5 
R^R6 
K— Q3 

(a) As he does not intend to Castle on that wing, this advance gives him attack- 
ing prospects. 

(6) 12. . .Q— B3; and if 13 Kt— Qo, 18 Q— B2 was stronger play. 

(c) Q— B8 wonld have strengthened his attack. 

(d) If 84. . .Kt X Kt; 85 Q x P ch., followed by Q x R, etc. 

(e) R — B6 ch. first would have settled matters more speedily, but this, of course, 
also wins. 

j 

490 J. w. baiud's oakes. 

«8K— B5 KxP 79P— Kt5 R— R5 

69KxP R— QR5 80R— QKt6 R— R2 

TOR— KB2 R— Kr> 81R— Kt4 R— Rsq. 

71 R— KB4 R— K7 82 R— Kt 7 ch. K— R sq. 

72R— KKt4 K— K3 83K— R6 R— R3 cli. 

73 KxP K— B3 84P— Kt6 R— Rsq. 

74K— R5 R— Ksq. 86 P— R5 R— QB sq. 

75R— Kt6ch. K— B2 86R— Kt5! R— R sq. 

76 P— R4 R— R sq. cli. 87 K— Kt 5 R— QB sq. 

77 R— R6 R— QR sq. 88 P— R6- R— R sq. 
78P— Kt4 K— Kt2 89 P— R7 Resigns. 

^^ 

AUS 4 1943 

4