Underscores “_” before and after a word or phrase indicate _italics_
    in the original text.
  Equal signs “=” before and after a word or phrase indicate =bold=
    in the original text.
  Small capitals have been converted to SOLID capitals.
  Deprecated spellings have been preserved.
  Typographical and punctuation errors have been silently corrected.

STUDIES OF CHESS;
                         CONTAINING
                      CAISSA, A POEM,

                             BY
                     SIR WILLIAM JONES;

       _A Systematic Introduction to the Game_;
                            AND
                         THE WHOLE
                     ANALYSIS OF CHESS,

                        COMPOSED BY
                MR. A. D. PHILIDOR:

                            WITH
                 Original Critical Remarks.

                      IN TWO VOLUMES.

              “_Ludimus effigiem belli._”

                          VOL. I.

                          London:
    PRINTED FOR SAMUEL BAGSTER, NO. 81, STRAND.

                           1803.

                  _Printed by W. Smith,
               King Street, Seven Dials._

_Contents of the First Volume._

PAGE
    Caïssa, a Poem, by Sir William Jones     1
    Introduction to Chess                   21
    Elementary Institutes                   23
    Description of the Pieces               24
    General Maxims                          35
    Progressive Examples—First Essay        54
        ——         ——    Second Essay       68
    Scale of Powers                         82
    Second Essay resumed                    85
    The Scholar’s-Mate                      98
    Game of Combinations                   112
    Analysis of Chess                      125
    Philidor’s own Games—First Party       127
        ——     ——    ——  Second Party      143
        ——     ——    ——  Third Party       157
        ——     ——    ——  Fourth Party      175
    Philidor’s First Gambit                190
        ——     Second Gambit               212
        ——     Third Gambit                235
    The Cunningham Gambit                  251

PREFACE.

Chess is distinguished from other games, by having long had the
suffrages of contemplative men in its favor; the countenance of
illustrious characters of the most opposite professions. Generals have
modelled their operations on its little portable field; philosophers
have traced consequences through its range of combinations; divines
have exercised contemplation in its vicissitudes. Teeming, through its
varied progress and turns, with excitements to thinking, it is, in its
essential tendency, a _gymnasium_ of the mind.

It is unnecessary to insist on the right of this game to be classed
alone, as the distinction with which it is viewed is a general
sentiment. The EDITOR is equally unoriginal on another subject, his
own merely coinciding with public impressions. This is the excellence
of the work of PHILIDOR, as a deposit of science and experience. It
is a publication intrinsically pervaded by invention and skill. The
substance alone is, however, entitled to unqualified eulogy: it must be
admitted, that PHILIDOR presented it in a dress capable of improvement.
This partly arose from an implicit adoption of terms which he found
in the game; and partly from the difficulty of giving his ideas an
expression, as clear as their conception, when conveying them in a
foreign language.

Hence the EDITOR found it necessary to recompose some, and to retouch
almost all the notes of the _ANALYSIS_. For any degree of obscurity
which may remain, or have acceded, he is thus become chargeable. He
hopes he has not unsuccessfully endeavoured at clearness; and he felt
it not a duty, incumbent on his province, to aim at elegance.

In the notation of the moves, the following are the principal
alterations upon which he has ventured. When the first lessons at Chess
were given to PHILIDOR, a habit of speaking of a piece, as making two
moves at once, infected his masters; and he imbibed it. “The king’s
pawn _two moves_.” It would be as proper to direct a bishop to make at
once seven moves. For phrases which have been repeated till they cease
to be strange, in marking the distance to be passed by a pawn, the
EDITOR uses the phrases, “_one square_”—“_two squares_.”

When two or three captures succeed without intermission, he found the
word _retake_ employed. But a piece once lost, is recovered by a
different process than capture; and though a player may make reprisals
or retaliate, he cannot, by any latitude of accommodation, be said
to retake. As this expression must perplex a novitiate, by implying
a resemblance in Chess and arms, which, in this respect, does not
exist, and cannot be agreeable to the proficient who considers its
incorrectness, it is rescinded, in the present copy, for the simple
word _take_.

The term _double check_ was indiscriminately applied, in the
_ANALYSIS_, to a situation which it precisely marks, and to another
situation. _The king in check with two pieces_, and _one piece taking
such an attitude to give check, that a part of the assailing power
diverges on a second piece_, are, surely, different relations of the
mimic forces. The EDITOR has introduced the new term _divergent check_,
for the latter situation

The high reputation of PHILIDOR, has not deterred the EDITOR from
critically examining each successive example in the ANALYSIS, whether
invented or adopted; and if an inquisitorial review has detected
circumstances, in the collision of the pieces, which appear to flow
from oversight, it is a just encomium on that accomplished player, that
they are very few. Aware of the delicacy with which movements dependent
on complicate play should be touched, the EDITOR has uniformly retained
the original course assigned by PHILIDOR; with regard to any change
of course, merely proposing it in a stricture, or pursuing it in the
detached form of a variation.

The _ANALYSIS_, as left by our professor, was not accompanied by a
compendium of the first elements of Chess, though a standard display of
the constitution of the game must be more or less necessary to every
person who consults a Chess Book. The _INTRODUCTION_ now prefixed,
proceeds on the supposition, that the reader is an inquirer on _every_
point connected with the board and pieces; any other idea excludes
method, and involves rejections that may be attributed to caprice. The
divisions will enable each reader to pass, in masses, those particulars
of which he does not want to be informed.

The rising series of games form an ascent to _PHILIDOR_. The inceptive
party is interspersed with moves which are declared to be wrong:
these may have a parallel use with the examples of false construction
inserted in grammars. The latter have long been pronounced to furnish
an improving exercise.

The scale of powers is a branch of Theory, new in its design. An
engaging part of the work remains to be noticed.

The Poem of Sir WILLIAM JONES is introduced as a relief from a serious
application to the game, and an elegant embellishment. Among its
numerous beauties, the description of the operations of the knight,
may be pointed out as eminently happy. The reader of taste, far from
disapproving the assignation of twenty pages to this admired effusion,
will regret that the recreative flight is so soon suspended; and the
amateur and polite scholar will hail, with pleasure, such a classical
offering to Chess.

CAÏSSA .
                OR
        THE GAME AT CHESS.

             A POEM.

    WRITTEN IN THE YEAR 1763.
      BY SIR WILLIAM JONES.

The first idea of the following piece was taken from a Latin poem of
Vida, entitled SCACCHIA LUDUS, which was translated into Italian by
Marino, and inserted in the fifteenth Canto of his Adonis: the author
thought it fair to make an acknowledgment in the notes for the passages
which he borrowed from those two poets; but he must also do them the
justice to declare, that most of the descriptions, and the whole story
of Caïssa, which is written in imitation of Ovid, are his own, and
their faults must be imputed to him only. The characters in the poem
are no less imaginary than those in the episode; in which the invention
of Chess is poetically ascribed to Mars, though it is certain that the
game was originally brought from India.

CAÏSSA.

    Of[1] armies on the chequer’d field array’d,
    And guiltless war in pleasing form display’d;
    When two bold kings contend with vain alarms,
    In ivory this, and that in ebon arms;
    Sing, sportive maids, that haunt the sacred hill
    Of Pindus, and the fam’d Pierian rill.
    [2]Thou, joy of all below, and all above,
    Mild Venus, queen of laughter, queen of love;
    Leave thy bright island, where on many a rose
    And many a pink thy blooming train repose:
    Assist me, goddess! since a lovely pair
    Command my song, like thee divinely fair.

[1] Ludimus effigiem belli, simulataque veris Prælia, buxo acies
fictas, et ludicra regna: Ut gemini inter se reges, albusque nigerque,
Pro laude oppositi certent bicoloribus armis. Dicite, Seriades Nymphæ,
certamina tanta. _Vida._

[2] Æneadum genitrix, hominum divûmque voluptas, Alma Venus! &c.
_Lucretius._

Near yon cool stream, whose living waters play,
    And rise translucent in the solar ray;
    Beneath the covert of a fragrant bower,
    Where spring’s soft influence purpled every flower;
    Two smiling nymphs reclin’d in calm retreat,
    And envying blossoms crouded round their seat;
    Here Delia was enthron’d, and by her side
    The sweet Sirena, both in beauty’s pride:
    Thus shine two roses, fresh with early bloom,
    That from their native stalk dispense perfume;
    Their leaves unfolding to the dawning day
    Gems of the glowing mead, and eyes of May.
    A band of youths and damsels sat around,
    Their flowing locks with braided myrtle bound;
    Agatis, in the graceful dance admir’d,
    And gentle Thyrsis, by the muse inspir’d;
    With Sylvia, fairest of the mirthful train;
    And Daphnis, doom’d to love, yet love in vain.
    Now, whilst a purer blush o’erspreads her cheeks,
    With soothing accents thus Sirena speaks:

      “The meads and lawns are ting’d with beamy light,
    “And wakeful larks begin their vocal flight;
    “Whilst on each bank the dewdrops sweetly smile;
    “What sport, my Delia, shall the hours beguile?
    “Shall heavenly notes, prolong’d with various art,
    “Charm the fond ear, and warm the rapturous heart?
    “At distance shall we view the sylvan chace?
    “Or catch with silken lines the finny race?”

      Then Delia thus: “Or rather, since we meet
    “By chance assembled in this cool retreat,
    “In artful contest let our warlike train
    “Move well-directed o’er the colour’d plain;
    “Daphnis, who taught us first, the play shall guide;
    “Explain its laws, and o’er the field preside:
    “No prize we need, our ardour to inflame;
    “We fight with pleasure, if we fight for fame.”

      The nymph consents: the maids and youths prepare
    To view the combat, and the sport to share:
    But Daphnis most approv’d the bold design,
    Whom Love instructed, and the tuneful Nine.
    He rose, and on the cedar table plac’d
    A polish’d board, with differing colours grac’d;
    [3]Squares eight times eight in equal order lie;
    These bright as snow, those dark with sable dye;
    Like the broad target by the tortoise born,
    Or like the hide by spotted panthers worn.
    Then from a chest, with harmless heroes stor’d,
    O’er the smooth plain two well-wrought hosts he pour’d;
    The champions burn’d their rivals to assail.
    [4]Twice eight in black, twice eight in milkwhite mail;
    In shape and station different, as in name,
    Their motions various, nor their power the same.
    Say, muse! (for Jove has nought from thee conceal’d)
    Who form’d the legions on the level field?

[3] Sexaginta insunt et quatuor ordine sedes Octono; parte ex omni, via
limite quadrat Ordinibus paribus; necnon forma omnibus una Sedibus,
æquale et spatium, sed non color unus: Alternant semper variæ,
subeuntque vicissim Albentes nigris; testudo picta superne Qualia
devexo gestat discrimina tergo. _Vida._

[4] Agmina bina pari numeroque, et viribus æquis, Bis niveâ cum veste
octo, totidemque nigranti. Ut variæ facies, pariter sunt et sua cuique
Nomina, diversum munus, non æqua potestas. _Vida._

High in the midst the reverend kings appear,
    And o’er the rest their pearly scepters rear:
    One solemn step, majestically slow,
    They gravely move, and shun the dangerous foe;
    If e’er they call, the watchful subjects spring,
    And die with rapture if they save their king;
    On him the glory of the day depends,
    He once imprison’d, all the conflict ends.

      The queens exulting near their consorts stand;
    Each bears a deadly falchion in her hand;
    Now here, now there, they bound with furious pride,
    And thin the trembling ranks from side to side;
    Swift as Camilla flying o’er the main,
    Or lightly skimming o’er the dewy plain:
    Fierce as they seem, some bold Plebeian spear
    May pierce their shield, or stop their full career.

      The valiant guards, their minds on havock bent,
    Fill the next squares, and watch the royal tent;
    Tho’ weak their spears, tho’ dwarfish be their height,
    [5]Compact they move, the bulwark of the fight.

      To right and left the martial wings display
    Their shining arms, and stand in close array.
    Behold, four archers, eager to advance,
    Send the light reed, and rush with sidelong glance;
    Through angles ever they assault the foes,
    True to the colour, which at first they chose.
    Then four bold knights for courage fam’d and speed,
    Each knight exalted on a prancing steed:
    [6]Their arching course no vulgar limit knows,
    Transverse they leap, and aim insidious blows:
    Nor friends, nor foes, their rapid force restrain,
    By one quick bound two changing squares they gain;
    From varying hues renew the fierce attack,
    And rush from black to white, from white to black.
    Four solemn elephants the sides defend;
    Beneath the load of ponderous towers they bend:
    In one unalter’d line they tempt the fight;
    Now crush the left, and now o’erwhelm the right.
    Bright in the front the dauntless soldiers raise
    Their polish’d spears; their steely helmets blaze:
    Prepar’d they stand the daring foe to strike,
    Direct their progress, but their wounds oblique.

[5] The chief art in the Tactics of Chess consists in the nice conduct
of the royal pawns; in supporting them against every attack; and,
if they are taken, in supplying their places with others equally
supported: a principle, on which the success of the game in great
measure depends, though it seems to be omitted by the very accurate
Vida.

[6] Il cavallo leggier per dritta lista, Come gli altri, l’ arringo
unqua non fende, Mà la lizza attraversa, e fiero in vista Curvo in
giro, e lunato il salto stende, E sempre nel saltar due case acquista,
Quel colore abbandona, e questo prende. _Marino, Adone. 15._

      Now swell th’ embattled troops with hostile rage,
    And clang their shields, impatient to engage;
    When Daphnis thus: A varied plain behold,
    Where fairy kings their mimick tents unfold,
    As Oberon, and Mab, his wayward queen,
    Lead forth their armies on the daisied green.
    No mortal hand the wondrous sport contriv’d,
    By Gods invented, and from Gods deriv’d;
    [7]From them the British nymphs receiv’d the game,
    And play each morn beneath the crystal Thame;
    Hear then the tale, which they to Colin sung,
    As idling o’er the lucid wave he hung.

[7] Quæ quondam sub aquis gaudent spectacla tueri Nereides, vastique
omnis gens accola ponti; Siquando placidum mare, et humida regna
quierunt. _Vida._

A lovely Dryad rang’d the Thracian wild,
    Her air enchanting, and her aspect mild:
    To chase the bounding hart was all her joy,
    Averse from Hymen, and the Cyprian boy;
    O’er hills and valleys was her beauty fam’d,
    And fair Caïssa was the damsel nam’d.
    Mars saw the maid; with deep surprise he gaz’d,
    Admir’d her shape, and every gesture prais’d:
    His golden bow the child of Venus bent,
    And through his breast a piercing arrow sent:
    The reed was Hope; the feathers, keen Desire;
    The point, her eyes; the barbs, ethereal fire,
    Soon to the nymph he pour’d his tender strain;
    The haughty Dryad scorn’d his amorous pain:
    He told his woes, where’er the maid he found,
    And still he press’d, yet still Caïssa frown’d;
    But ev’n her frowns (ah, what smiles have done!)
    Fir’d all his soul, and all his senses won.
    He left his car, by raging tigers drawn,
    And lonely wander’d o’er the dusky lawn;
    Then lay desponding near a murmuring stream,
    And fair Caïssa was his plaintive theme.
    A Naiad heard him from her mossy bed,
    And through the crystal rais’d her placid head;
    Then mildly spake: “O thou, whom love inspires,
    “Thy tears will nourish, nor allay thy fires.
    “The smiling blossoms drink the pearly dew;
    “And ripening fruit the feather’d race pursue;
    “The scaly shoals devour the silken weeds;
    “Love on our sighs, and on our sorrow feeds.
    “Then weep no more; but, ere thou canst obtain
    “Balm to thy wounds, and solace to thy pain,
    “With gentle art thy martial look beguile;
    “Be mild, and teach thy rugged brow to smile.
    “Canst thou no play, no soothing game devise;
    “To make thee lovely in the damsel’s eyes?
    “So may thy prayers assuage the scornful dame,
    “And ev’n Caïssa own a mutual flame.
    “Kind nymph, said Mars, thy counsel I approve;
    “Art, only art, her ruthless breast can move.
    “But when? or how? Thy dark discourse explain:
    “So may thy stream ne’er swell with gushing rain;
    “So may thy waves in one pure current flow,
    And flowers eternal on thy border blow!”

      To whom the maid replied with smiling mien:
    “Above the palace of the Paphian queen
    “[8]Love’s brother dwells, a boy of graceful port,
    “By gods nam’d Euphron, and by mortals Sport:
    “Seek him; to faithful ears unfold thy grief,
    “And hope, ere morn return, a sweet relief.
    “His temple hangs below the azure skies;
    “Seest thou yon argent cloud? ’Tis there it lies.”
    This said, she sunk beneath the liquid plain,
    And sought the mansion of her blue-hair’d train.

[8] Ecco d’astuto ingegno, e pronta mano Garzon, che sempre scherza, e
vola ratto. _Gioco_ s’apella, ed è _d’amor germano_. _Marino, Adone.
15._

Meantime the god, elate with heart-felt joy,
    Had reach’d the temple of the sportful boy;
    He told Caïssa’s charms, his kindled fire,
    The Naiad’s counsel, and his warm desire.
    “Be swift, he added, give my passion aid;
    “A god requests.”—He spake, and Sport obey’d.
    He fram’d a tablet of celestial mold,
    Inlay’d with squares of silver and of gold;
    Then of two metals form’d the warlike band,
    That here compact in show of battle stand;
    He taught the rules that guide the pensive game,
    And call’d it _Cassa_ from the Dryad’s name:
    (Whence Albion’s sons, who most its praise confess,
    Approv’d the play, and nam’d it thoughtful _Chess_.)
    The god delighted thank’d indulgent Sport;
    Then grasp’d the board, and left his airy court.
    With radiant feet he pierc’d the clouds; nor stay’d,
    Till in the woods he saw the beauteous maid:
    Tir’d with the chase the damsel set reclin’d,
    Her girdle loose, her bosom unconfin’d.
    He took the figure of a wanton Faun,
    And stood before her on the flowery lawn;
    Then show’d his tablet: pleas’d the nymph survey’d
    The lifeless troops in glittering ranks display’d;
    She ask’d the wily sylvan to explain
    The various motions of the splendid train;
    With eager heart she caught the winning lore,
    And thought ev’n Mars less hateful than before;
    “What spell, said she, deceiv’d my careless mind?
    “The god was fair, and I was most unkind.”
    She spoke, and saw the changing Faun assume
    A milder aspect, and a fairer bloom;
    His wreathing horns, that from his temples grew,
    Flow’d down in curls of bright celestial hue;
    The dappled hairs, that veil’d his loveless face,
    Blaz’d into beams, and show’d a heavenly grace;
    The shaggy hide, that mantled o’er his breast,
    Was soften’d to a smooth transparent vest,
    That through its folds his vigorous bosom show’d,
    And nervous limbs, where youthful ardour glow’d:
    (Had Venus view’d him in those blooming charms,
    Not Vulcan’s net had forc’d her from his arms.)
    With goatlike feet no more he mark’d the ground,
    But braided flowers his silken sandals bound.
    The Dryad blush’d; and, as he press’d her, smil’d,
    Whilst all his cares one tender glance beguil’d.

      He ends: _To arms_, the maids and striplings cry;
    _To arms_, the groves and sounding vales reply.
    Sirena led to war the swarthy crew,
    And Delia those that bore the lily’s hue.
    Who first, O muse, began the bold attack;
    The white refulgent, or the mournful black?
    Fair Delia first, as favouring lots ordain,
    Moves her pale legions tow’rd the sable train:
    From thought to thought her lively fancy flies,
    Whilst o’er the board she darts her sparkling eyes.

      At length the warrior moves with haughty strides;
    Who from the plain the snowy king divides:
    With equal haste his swarthy rival bounds;
    His quiver rattles, and his buckler sounds:
    Ah! hapless youths, with fatal warmth you burn;
    Laws, ever fix’d, forbid you to return.
    Then from the wing a short-liv’d spearman flies,
    Unsafely bold, and see! he dies, he dies:
    The dark-brow’d hero, with one vengeful blow
    Of life and place deprives his ivory foe.
    Now rush both armies o’er the burnish’d field,
    Hurl the swift dart, and rend the bursting shield.
    Here furious knights on fiery coursers prance,
    Here archers spring, and lofty towers advance.
    But see! the white-rob’d Amazon beholds
    Where the dark host its opening van unfolds:
    Soon as her eye discerns the hostile maid,
    By ebon shield, and ebon helm betray’d;
    Seven squares she passes with majestic mien,
    And stands triumphant o’er the falling queen.
    Perplex’d, and sorrowing at his consort’s fate,
    The monarch burn’d with rage, despair, and hate:
    Swift from his zone th’ avenging blade he drew,
    And, mad with ire, the proud virago slew.
    Meanwhile sweet smiling Delia’s wary king
    Retir’d from fight behind his circling wing.

      Long time the war in equal balance hung;
    Till, unforeseen, an ivory courser sprung,
    And, wildly prancing in an evil hour,
    Attack’d at once the monarch and the tower:
    Sirena blush’d; for, as the rules requir’d,
    Her injur’d sovereign to his tent retir’d;
    Whilst her lost castle leaves his threatening height,
    And adds new glory to th’ exulting knight.

      At this, pale fear oppress’d the drooping maid,
    And on her cheek the rose began to fade:
    A crystal tear, that stood prepar’d to fall,
    She wip’d in silence, and conceal’d from all;
    From all but Daphnis: He remark’d her pain,
    And saw the weakness of her ebon train;
    Then gently spoke: “Let me your loss supply,
    “And either nobly win, or nobly die;
    “Me oft has fortune crown’d with fair success,
    “And led to triumph in the fields of Chess.”
    He said: the willing nymph her place resign’d,
    And sat at distance on the bank reclin’d.
    Thus when Minerva call’d her chief to arms,
    And Troy’s high turret shook with dire alarms,
    The Cyprian goddess wounded left the plain,
    And Mars engag’d a mightier force in vain.

      Strait Daphnis leads his squadron to the field;
    (To Delia’s arms ’tis ev’n a joy to yield.)
    Each guileful snare, and subtle art he tries,
    But finds his heart less powerful than her eyes:
    Wisdom and strength superior charms obey;
    And beauty, beauty, wins the long-fought day.
    By this a hoary chief, on slaughter bent,
    Approach’d the gloomy king’s unguarded tent;
    Where, late, his consort spread dismay around,
    Now her dark corse lies bleeding on the ground.
    Hail, happy youth! thy glories not unsung
    Shall live eternal on the poet’s tongue;
    For thou shalt soon receive a splendid change,
    And o’er the plain with nobler fury range.
    The swarthy leaders saw the storm impend,
    And strove in vain their sovereign to defend:
    Th’ invader wav’d his silver lance in air,
    And flew like lightning to the fatal square;
    His limbs dilated in a moment grew
    To stately height, and widen’d to the view;
    More fierce his look, more lion-like his mien,
    Sublime he mov’d, and seem’d a warrior queen.
    As when the sage on some unfolding plant
    Has caught a wandering fly, or frugal ant,
    His hand the microscopick frame applies,
    And lo! a bright hair’d monster meets his eyes;
    He sees new plumes in slender cases roll’d;
    Here stain’d with azure, there bedropp’d with gold;
    Thus, on the alter’d chief both armies gaze,
    And both the kings are fix’d with deep amaze.
    The sword, which arm’d the snow-white maid before,
    He now assumes, and hurls the spear no more;
    Then springs indignant on the dark-rob’d band,
    And knights and archers feel his deadly hand.

    Now flies the monarch of the sable shield,
    His legions vanquish’d, o’er the lonely field:
    [9]So when the morn, by rosy coursers drawn,
    With pearls and rubies sows the verdant lawn,
    Whilst each pale star from heaven’s blue vault retires,
    Still Venus gleams, and last of all expires.
    He hears, where’er he moves, the dreadful sound;
    _Check_ the deep vales, and _Check_ the woods rebound.
    No place remains: he sees the certain fate,
    And yields his throne to ruin, and Check-mate.

      A brighter blush o’erspreads the damsel’s cheeks,
    And mildly thus the conquer’d stripling speaks:
    “A double triumph, Delia, hast thou won,
    “By Mars protected, and by Venus’ son;
    “The first with conquest crowns thy matchless art,
    “The second points those eyes at Daphnis’ heart.”
    She smil’d; the nymphs and amorous youths arise,
    And own that beauty gain’d the nobler prize.

      Low in their chest the mimic troops were lay’d,
    [10]And peaceful slept the sable hero’s shade.

[9] —— Medio rex æquore inermis Constitit amissis sociis: velut æthere
in alto Expulit ardentes flammas ubi lutea bigis Luciferis Aurora,
tuus pulcherrimus ignis Lucet adhuc, Venus, et cœlo mox ultimus exit.
_Vida_, ver 604.

[10] A parody of the last line in Pope’s translation of the Iliad,
“And peaceful slept the mighty Hector’s shade.”

A
         SYSTEMATIC
       _INTRODUCTION_
             TO

     THE GAME OF CHESS.

INTRODUCTION TO CHESS.

CHAPTER I.

=_Elementary Institutes_=.

The board on which this game is played, like that used at _Draughts_,
is a square, divided into sixty-four lesser squares, and checquered
black and white. At _Chess_ these squares have the technical name of
_houses_, and are all made use of in play.

In placing the board, care must be taken that one of the two white
corner squares be at the right hand of each player. _Note_—That when
the board is in this position, the several ranges of houses running
in a strait line from left to right, are called _ranks_; those
perpendicular to them, running from one player to the other, take the
name of _files_, and the two ranges, sloping from one corner of the
board to the opposite, (one of white, the other of black squares,
touching at the corner), are _diagonals_; so are the lesser ranges
which run in a parallel direction.

THE PIECES

Allotted to each competitor are sixteen, viz. a king, a queen, two
bishops, two knights, two rooks, and eight pawns. As a necessary
distinction, each set is coloured in a different way; one is commonly
white, the other red or black.

THE DISPOSITION OF THE PIECES ON THE BOARD

Is as follows: The white king is to be seated on the first or nearest
rank, on the fourth house (a black one) from that corner of the board
which is to the right of the player to whom he belongs; his queen
close to him on his left, on a house of her own colour—on one side of
each of these, a bishop—adjoining each of the bishops, a knight—and
last of all, at the corners of the board, the two rooks. Having thus
arranged the first line, let the whole of the second rank be occupied
by the pawns, one before each of the dignified pieces. As to the
counter set, the black king is to be placed on the farther side of the
board, exactly opposite the white one—his queen opposite the white
queen—and so on; placing all the pieces opposite those of corresponding
denominations—the pawns on the second rank as before.

To illustrate what has been said, and to prevent any misunderstanding
respecting it, as well as to shew the forms of the pieces, the plate
forming the frontispiece is given; which see.

THEIR POWERS AND MODE OF ACTION.

The gradation in rising from the lowest, to the higher pieces, will
shew the _comparative worth of each kind_.

I. Of the PAWN. When one of the pawns is moved, it must be along the
file in which he has been first placed, in a strait line towards the
adverse party. The first move may be either _one_ or _two_ squares, at
the option of the player: after which, no one of them, while he remains
a pawn, can advance more than _one_ house at a time. When once brought
out, a pawn, more restrained than any other piece, cannot retreat or
move back again. He is prohibited too from quitting his own file for
that of another, except in the single case of making a capture; on
which occasion he moves obliquely into the next file, to the right or
left (as the case may happen) one house forward; _placing himself on
the square of the piece taken_,[11] which is removed from the board;
after which he is confined to moving directly forwards as before, and
cannot leave his new file for another, but on a similar occasion to
that which led him into it.

A pawn, like every other agent on the board, takes any piece that comes
within his reach, indiscriminately from one of his own quality to the
queen.

[11] This is the custom of all the pieces on a capture.

II. The KNIGHT. The move of the knight is peculiar to himself, and
difficult to explain. It is two squares at once (three, including his
own) in a direction partly diagonal and partly strait. The house he
goes into, is always of a _different colour_ from that which he leaves.
It may likewise be said to be uniformly _next but one_ to the latter;
although in his passage to it he passes transversely over the corners
of _two_.

The knight’s power of capture reaches to any square that his move will
take him into.

Note—That this is the only piece that has a _vaulting motion_; or
that is not precluded from going to a square, between which and his
own other pieces intervene: just to shew what is meant, if good play
permitted it, any one of the knights could move out before a pawn had
stirred, alighting on the third square of either the bishop or the
rook; without waiting, as the other superior pieces are obliged, till
an opening be made.

III. The BISHOP. By observing the plate it will be seen, that the
bishops of the same set are placed on squares of a different colour;
the white king’s bishop, for instance, being seated on a white, and
the white queen’s bishop on a black square. What makes it necessary
to remark this, which is common to the knight and rook, is, that the
bishop, unlike all the other pieces, is obliged to walk, throughout the
game, on that colour of the exchequer[12] that he was placed on at the
commencement of it; which is a necessary consequence of his motion
being purely _diagonal_. His step is in other respects very unlimited,
as he may, at a single effort, go any length of squares from one to
eight. The bishop, if the road be open for him, takes at any distance.

[12] A technical name for the board.

IV. The ROOK. The rook moves in _strait lines_, forwards or sideways.
He can, at one step, pass along a whole rank, or a whole file, or
stop short at the first, second, third, or any other square of a rank
or file, as occasion may require. Like the bishop, and on the same
condition, he takes at any distance[13].

[13] Having gotten through the last of the pieces of which there are
more than one of a sort, in order to confirm the reader in what he
might suppose, and to leave him no question to make, we turn aside
to observe to him, that the difference in the worth of pieces of the
same kind, is indeed _next to nothing_; that the little odds there is,
between superior pieces of the same description, is in favour of that
on the king’s side; and that of the four centre commoners, which are
reckoned rather the best, the king’s bishop’s commoner is the most
esteemed.

V. The QUEEN—unites the moves of the _bishop_ and _rook_; and, like
them, when the road is open, takes at any distance.

VI. The KING—_except_ when he avails himself of the privilege of
_castling_, can move only _one square_ at a time; of course he can take
at no greater distance: he may, however, both move and take either
forwards, backwards, sideways, or aslant. When policy shall invite the
player to the expedient, and the previous unarbitrary removal of the
bishop and knight on his right, or of the bishop, rook and queen on his
left, has rendered it effectible without any violence to propriety, the
king may _castle_ with either of his rooks; which is done by placing
the king on that knight’s square that is next to the rook with whom
he castles, and by placing the rook at the other side of the king, on
the bishop’s square adjoining. This _ambidextral_ manœuvre of changing
the situation of two pieces at one time, the player is allowed to
employ but once; and not at all if the king has previously moved. It is
impracticable and unnecessary at the beginning of the game. The only
prerogative of the king, is a great one; that of _never being taken_.

OF PROMOTING A PAWN TO BE A QUEEN, ROOK, &c.

When a pawn has penetrated to the farthest rank on the adverse side
of the board, he is rewarded with promotion to the _highest vacant
dignity_[14]; that is to say, if the person playing him there has lost
his queen, he succeeds to the honor. If instead of his queen one or
both of the rooks be lost, he is made a rook. If the queen and rooks
have escaped capture, he is made a bishop. If the bishops have likewise
been preserved, he is made a knight. The ceremony of transformation
taking place in either case, and which is necessary to distinguish him,
is very short: A sort of exchange: The pawn is removed from the board,
and put among those taken by the adversary; and a captured piece,
of the denomination he is advanced to, is taken from thence, and
substituted in his room. It can hardly be necessary to say, that his
powers and mode of action alter with his quality.

[14] Under the scheme that advances the pawn to the _rank of the piece
whose square he gets into_, it happens that when his player has not
lost a piece of that identical quality, the only reward of the pawn is
to stand exposed to incessant attacks, without the power of retreating
in any direction:—To have _both the bishops of a set moving on the
same colour_, an anomaly which will seldom occur, and which the other
is just as liable to induce, is the only one that can result from this
scheme.

OF GIVING CHECK, AND CHECK-MATE.

Upon this the game hinges. As the king is never taken, whenever an
adversary is advanced upon him in such a manner, as that, remaining
where he is, if he were _any other piece_ he would be captured; the
person advancing it is to salute him with the word “_Check_,” warning
him of his situation; upon which it is absolutely necessary for him to
alter it in one of the following ways: either, _relatively_, by taking
the threatening piece, or interposing[15] one of his own between that
and himself; or, _positively_, by removing to a square where neither
that nor any other of the adversary’s pieces reach. If he cannot do
one of these, the game is lost. This inextricable _contact_ with an
_adverse piece_ is technically termed CHECK-MATE.

[15] _Note_—This second mode of defending himself cannot be practised
when he is checked by the knight, owing to the vaulting motion of that
piece; he must then have recourse to either the first, or the third:
and should he be checked by any two pieces at once, which is called
_double check_, the third only will avail.

OF GIVING A STALE.

The game may be lost too in quite an _opposite_ manner. By the
constitution of Chess, the king is on no account to move into check;
and, therefore, when, as it not unfrequently happens, one party has
crowded up the king of the other with so many pieces, that the only
move left him would take him into check; if the person to whom the king
so circumstanced belongs has no other piece, or no other that can be
moved, the contest must necessarily stagnate. Come to an end before the
arrival of the regular result, it can be proceeded in no further. It
is not, however, _undecided_. The player giving the other the _stale_,
(so, in the language of Chess, the _dilemma_ which the king is in is
called) is, by a rule immemorially acquiesced in, adjudged to have
_defeated himself_.

REASONS FOR ASSIGNING, IN THE CASE OF A STALE-MATE, THE VICTORY TO THE
PARTY SUFFERING IT.

A little reflection will shew that this rule is not incapable of the
justification which at first sight it may seem to want. It would be an
intolerable defect in the game to have it perpetually liable to an
accident that would render it undecisive. The only way of avoiding this
defect, is the instituting an artificial rule, awarding the victory,
whenever a stale happens, to one party or the other.

The necessity of making some kind of decision being arrived at, the
propriety of placing the bias where it is may be easily evinced.

It is to be recollected that the rule under discussion is an arbitrary
one. The expediency of an arbitrary rule, however great, cannot
entirely divest it of the dissatisfactory; and therefore the seldomer
there is occasion for it the better: now the making him to lose by a
stale, who may always avoid it by caution, is an effective bar to its
happening very often.

Other properties of this rule do not merely justify—they highly
recommend it. The bias which it has adopted serves to balance the
advantages of the game, as it is entirely in favour of the weaker
party. Owing to this very bias, whenever the critical case, to which
it is applied, is likely to occur, _a greater exertion of intellect in
conducting the approach is incited_; than which nothing can be more
agreeable to the genius of the game, as the professed object of Chess
is to call out the powers of the mind.

Thus a defect inherent in the structure of the game, and from which
it were impossible to free it, is overruled so as to give it a higher
degree of interest. Upon the whole, the necessity for this rule is not
to be deplored.

OF A DRAW GAME.

If it be not superfluous to put it any where, it must be added here,
that whenever from the greatness of the loss on each side, (the more
potent pieces, and those capable of becoming so, being gone), or
from any other cause, it becomes certain that neither party can give
the other Check-mate; the game is to be discontinued as insipid and
useless, the players consenting to draw their pieces, and begin afresh.

CHAP. II.

=_General Maxims_=.

These questions occur at every evolution—_What piece is to be moved?
Where is it to be moved to?_ After the first time, for a very obvious
reason to the practical player, (the abstraction from any particular
situation, which from the latitude of moves in the power of the
adversary, the mind of the theorist is forced to make), we can only
give helps for the reader himself to decide them.

The game cannot be better opened than by advancing the _king’s pawn
two squares_. If the first adventurer be threatened, the queen’s or
bishop’s pawn may lend him support. Which of the others should succeed
will depend greatly on the moves of the opposite party. The pawns must
not be so placed as to interrupt the freedom of the other pieces. Where
the pawns are not equal to the defence of each other, the other pieces
must be brought out to support them:[16]—in this business the bishops
are in general the preferable agents, as they are not so liable as the
knights to be clogged by the obstructions which this early stage of the
game from its crouded stage is sure to present[17].

[16] One piece to guard another, at Chess, must be placed so that if
the piece he is designed to guard were an opponent he could take him.
The protection results from the adversary’s being deterred from a
capture by the certainty of a reprisal. The king alone is to be guarded
in a different mode, and that mode will be explained in its place.

[17] It may seem strange that the knight, which overleaps every other
piece, should be more liable to obstruction than the bishop: the reason
of the fact is, that the knight cannot stop short of, any more than
exceed, a very limited extent.

_Prudence_ requires that the superior pieces be not over forward in
acting offensively; because by every one that is driven back you lose
a move: but when a few pieces have been[18] changed, and the game
is somewhat advanced, and there is no danger of their stopping the
progress of such of the pawns as you wish to push on, you need not be
shy of using the _knights_, any more than the _bishops_, in occasional
attacks on the most unguarded of the adversaries.

[18] To change our exchange pieces is to lose one or two of your own
for the sake of taking one or two of the adversary’s. It serves to
clear the board, and enlarge the scene of action; and, when you get a
piece of greater value than that lost, it encreases your comparative
strength. Nevertheless it is only to be done with caution, and of those
pieces for which you have the least occasion.

The _queen_ must not be moved hastily;—for offence in particular, not
till some kind of method pervades the rest of your pieces—and you can
guess what aspect the game is likely to assume. To put this piece in
motion before you had digested a set of measures, and had a probable
certainty of succeeding in them, would be entirely to misemploy her
great powers.

As the _rooks_, while the game is thronged, can effect nothing worthy
their attempting; generally speaking, it is advisable to keep them in
reserve till towards the conclusion of the game. The usefulness of
the rook, gradually increasing as the crisis approaches, is then very
little inferior to that of the queen[19].

[19] To the adversary’s king stript of his attendants, the rook, with
the sole assistance of his own king, is capable of giving check-mate
beyond the possibility of illusion; a degree of prowess which, besides
the queen, no other piece than the rook can boast.

The _king_ is not to act offensively. He is to be put where he will be
least open to attack; and, while a fatal one is possible, neither move
nor take but with a view to his own defence. _The two points_ to which
every thing else is to subserve, are, _the giving check-mate to the
adversary’s king_, and _the preservation of your own_.

To make you as much acquainted with the right way of endeavouring at
these, as _bare Theory_ is able to do; it will be necessary to be a
little more particular.

§ 1. On that side of the board, whether right or left, on which you
mean to castle the king—neither the bishop’s, the knight’s, nor the
rook’s pawn must stir from its place; because the principal inducement
to the measure, is, the protection he will receive by retiring behind
them.

2. The other pawns must be kept together and well supported; and not
suffered to straggle forwards alone. A party of these, managed with
address, may, in a future part of the game, repair the loss of a
capital piece, or do some other signal service.

3. At the same time that you are concerting the attack of the
adversary, endeavour (but not so as to interfere with any thing of more
importance) to have your own king so circumstanced that he may castle
when he pleases. Should this convenience be effected, if his not being
castled be no obstruction to your other operations, let him remain at
his own square till there is a necessity for his going to the retreat
secured for him. The advantage to be gained by this procedure is, that
the adversary will be obliged to form two distinct systems of attack.

4. As soon as the adversary has castled, if it be on a different side
of the board from that on which you have castled, or intend to castle,
let your pawns opposite bear down upon his king. The queen and what
other pieces you can spare, in particular the rook to whom their
removal opens a field, must support them in this onset[20].

[20] If the adversary castles on the same side with you, an adherence
to what is contained in the first section will lead you to attack him
with the superior pieces only.

5. Where a direct attack upon the adversary’s king is impolitic or
impracticable, you must endeavour to take those of his pieces that most
contribute to render it so.

6. Ineffectual checks, or checks that the adversary can easily elude,
are in general to be refrained from; as they are very apt to lead
to loss of move, loss of the checking-piece, and so on. Experience,
however, will furnish a few cases, in which there is a propriety in
giving such a check—where it will force the adversary’s king into a
more exposed situation—where the movement, necessary to avert it,
will leave a capital piece unguarded—where, the adversary’s king not
having castled, nor being in a condition to do so, it will force him by
moving to forfeit that privilege—and where, having a piece of your own
attacked, that you are not able otherwise to save, it will cause the
removal of some piece that impedes his escape.

7. In defending your own king when closely attacked—where it will
either cause the adversary to lose a move, or increase your comparative
strength; and at the same time, be a successful means of parrying the
check—you should offer to make an exchange of pieces.

8. If the king be castled, the pawns forming a cordon before, or round
him, should be guarded as much as possible from the brunts of the
adversary.

9. Whenever, from being either reduced in number, or obliged to
quit their stations, the defence afforded the king by these becomes
precarious—or whenever the king is not castled at all—some of the
superior pieces should be kept in readiness to contribute actively to
his safety; being posted so, that where they cannot prevent, they may
at least cover him from check. Their number and quality circumstances
must decide. Those that operate at a distance, will not on this service
be out of their province; nor will it often be found of them, as it
will of the knights, that they are thereby rendered the less prepared
to act offensively. The keeping, too, such pieces as the rook, the
bishop, or the queen, near your own king, may sometimes cause the
adversary to relax in his caution where it does not add to his security.

10. Of the queen, it is however to be noted, that she must never stand
in such a way before the king, as that were an adverse rook or bishop
to attack her, her moving aside would leave the king in check; because
were she to be so attacked, should the rook or bishop be well guarded,
and you had no piece to interpose, as it would not do to expose the
king, you could no how avoid losing the queen for a less valuable piece.

11. Great advantages are often gained by an _ambuscade_; which is the
having one piece, a pawn, for instance, so placed before another, we
will say the queen, that though the adversary, on a cursory view,
might seem to be safe; yet by simply playing the piece in front, whose
intervention alone keeps him from it, check, single or double[21], will
be discovered to his king.

[21] A rook and a bishop may be placed so that the adversary’s king is
in check with neither; and yet by moving that nearest him forwards or
sideways, he will be in check with both; and so with respect to others.

12. While intent on projects of offence, take care that you are not
surprised yourself. Indeed every detail of a stratagem to be practised
on the adversary, carries with it a tacit admonition to beware of the
like from him; as to caution against any evolution, is saying, “look
out for an opportunity to practise it.”

13. Take care that an adverse pawn does not advance upon two
superior pieces, which is called forking them; knights and rooks are
particularly liable to be attacked in this way, the pawns not requiring
to be guarded, because the moves of those pieces do not comprehend the
moves of the pawn. Thus where there is not a reciprocity in the mode
of action between a smaller and a larger piece, the approach of the
smaller may be very dangerous.

14. Hence it is, that unremitting vigilance must be exerted throughout
the game, to prevent either of the adverse knights from checking the
king and queen at the same time; because as the king can only save
himself from the knight by a positive removal, the sacrifice of the
queen is rendered inevitable.

15. Nor must the adversary be suffered to direct the insidious power of
the knight, on any other two pieces of more importance than himself; as
the loss of one of them for the knight, or for nothing, will be sure to
follow.

16. When two pieces are attacked in such a way, that one of them at
least must be lost; in deciding which to give up, you must not think
so much on the difference in their worth, which may be more than
counterbalanced by other circumstances, as on the particular effects
which the capture of this or that is likely to have.

17. Whenever you are so well prepared for the worst, as to have two or
three pawns so near the adversary’s farthest rank, and so well posted,
that you are almost certain of reaching it with one of them when you
please; you may be the bolder with your capital pieces—and, where you
would be otherwise in doubt which to surrender, the less tenacious of
retaining one of them in preference to another that is less capital.

18. Without there should be no other way of saving the king, or no
other but what would be attended with a greater disadvantage, never
cover him from check by placing a superior piece in that manner, that a
pawn of the adversary, by being advanced a move, could take him; lest
the adversary, availing himself of the opportunity, oblige you to a
losing exchange.

19. In order to have as powerful pieces as you can in play, let
those that are stationed to guard some other stationary ones, be of
no greater force than is necessary; that is, where the motives for
employing one of several pieces on this service are in other respects
equal, take the lowest.

20. Where two of the adversaries are so circumstanced that you take
either, similar considerations to those in the 16th section will
determine you.

21. Where an adversary is so exposed that you can take him when you
please, be in no haste about it: but see whether there be not some
danger to avert, or advantage to seize, in another quarter, and let him
alone till it be effected. It may at length be in your power to combine
the piece that shall move into his square in some extensive scheme, as
he may be supposed to move merely to take this piece.

22. Where an adverse pawn has advanced to the square immediately before
your king, do not take him, unless some consideration superior to his
worth impels his removal from the board; as an adverse pawn before the
king is generally found to be a safeguard.

23. Whenever you can anticipate by calculation that the sacrifice of
such and such a piece, though it can yield no immediate requital, will
yet lead to such an arrangement, as will enable you in the end to give
the adversary check-mate, true policy requires that you make it.

24. Never let an over-eagerness of the victory which a superiority
may promise you, lead you to endanger its forfeiture by giving a
stale: on the contrary, till you can give check-mate without a risk of
miscarriage, always leave the adversary ample room to move.

25. Whenever you have clearly the disadvantage of the game in other
respects, and yet happen to be in a position that by good management,
may be turned into a stale; you must, as your only resource, endeavour
to avail yourself of it. To do this, the following case will serve
as a general clue. Your king is close pressed on all sides, and you
have only the queen and an inferior piece left in play—take the first
opportunity of playing the inferior piece so, that by its being either
blocked up or lost, the king would be in a stale already if you had not
the queen.—This done, with the queen keep giving incessant[22] check
to the adversary’s king, till at length, to avoid a check-mate, the
adversary is forced to capture him. Your object will then be attained.

_Note_—Sometimes a check-mate or a stale will speedily terminate the
game; sometimes it will happen that the pieces are nearly played away,
without either taking place. To the latter case, the six sections that
next follow are exclusively adapted.

[22] The kings, in the course of play, may happen to be circumstanced
so nearly alike, as for the adversary’s to be liable to a stale at
the same time with yours. This will be a very nice point indeed, and
require your utmost skill and caution in checking—and now and then a
temporary forbearance.

26. When the adversary’s force is so much diminished, that your king,
if in any, is in no immediate danger—and your own force is so much
diminished likewise, that you can make no effective attack without
him—the necessity and policy of confining the king to defence only will
be superseded.

27. Among other uses to which he may then be devoted,—you must take
every opportunity of putting him in motion, where your doing so, will
be the only or the best way of either gaining or preserving the move,
which it is of such importance to have, that if the contest has been
otherwise equally conducted, your getting the game will depend upon
nothing else.

28. He may then, too, as circumstances vary, occasionally be of
service, either in protecting some pawn of your own which may be more
advanced than the rest, and which you want to raise to queen; or in
taking or harrassing any pawns of the adversary on the like expedition.

29. The note at the bottom of page 37, respecting the rook, is a
sufficient intimation that the king may, in this stage of the game,
be employed in combination with another piece in giving check to his
antagonist.

    From the same note it is to be inferred, that if one party
        has only a king, and the other in addition to the king
        has but one piece, and that piece be a knight or a
        bishop, it must be a draw game; and therefore that, next
        to a queen or a rook, it is best for that piece to be a
        pawn, from the possibility of making him a piece of the
        first power. This serves to introduce the two following

PARTICULAR CASES.

30. The adversary has the king and a pawn, and you have only the king.
You will naturally endeavour to intercept that pawn—his king, if he be
in any danger, will as naturally go to his assistance—this, if the king
is time enough to save him, will bring them together. Though you will
then have failed in taking the pawn; yet, if you can get before either
to the square towards which the pawn is moving; by manœuvering on the
first square of that file, and the second of that and the adjoining
files, you will either make a draw game, or win by a stale.

31. Upon certain contingencies, the adversary may have the king, a
bishop, and a pawn, when you have only the king, without being able
to beat you: which contingencies are these:—If the pawn be on a rook’s
file—if you can get into the square at your end of that file—if this
square be of a color different from that on which the bishop moves—all
these concurring, it is even possible for you to win by a stale.

32. To conclude; if you would have something more than a mere exemption
from defeat, depending on chances, to hope for, let this rule, in
connection with the others, be specially regarded. From first to last,
the changes and declensions, successively taking place in the number,
value, and situation of the pieces must be noted with exactness; and no
movement at any time made till the consequences are considered. This,
among other good effects, will the better enable you to conjecture what
the adversary may mean to do, and to take measures accordingly. If
closely pursued, it will at once prevent you from giving any advantage
to the adversary, and from overlooking any which he may give to you.

The initiate reader, having arrived thus far, will perhaps be impatient
to make a practical essay. From that, though it may originate in
a mistake, we would not withhold him. As what we design, is his
progressive improvement, we do not care how soon he is convinced that
he cannot make himself master of the whole at once. After he has made
the experiment, we would, for his next essays, direct his attention to
two or three games which we mean to detail as examples, move by move.
By studying these, and noting the foregoing directions, one at a time,
as the advantages of pursuing, or the effects of deviating from them
are laid open, he will soon imprint the spirit of them on his memory;
and practice, either by himself, or with a friend, will imperceptibly
confer on him a habit of adopting them with promptness.

If he is a genius, practice will do more; it will lead him to form
maxims of his own for indescribable cases.

After setting down the laws of the game, which will end this chapter;
we give the examples promised, chiefly as vehicles for rules for
particular situations, which can only be imparted with clearness, when
particular situations are exhibited on the board.

THE LAWS OF THE GAME,

_Reduced to their most simple Construction, are_,

I. If a player touches a piece, he must play it somewhere; and when he
has quitted it, he cannot change its place.

II. If one party, by mistake or otherwise, makes a false move, and
it is not discovered till after the other has played in his turn, it
cannot be revised or rectified by either.

III. If a player misplaces the pieces, and, before he finds it out,
plays two moves, it is at the choice of his opponent to permit him to
begin the game afresh or not.

IV. If one party plays or discovers check to the king of the other, and
neglects to notify it, the other may let him remain in open check till
he does.

V. After the king has moved, or if both the rooks have moved, he cannot
be castled.

    Where the object is mutual improvement, and not decision
        of skill—or where the superiority of one party is
        admitted, and the object is the improvement of the
        other—the first four of these may be dispensed with.

CHAP. III.

=_Progressive Examples_=.

APOLOGETIC INTRODUCTION.

As it is not the habit of every reader to wade patiently through a
preface, the author begs leave to condense here the substance of an
apology, which, from the influx of topics, could not there be presented
in a disentangled form.

Whoever has marked the experiments of a novitiate in Chess, must have
observed a propensity to a variety of moves, which while they appear to
open a field teeming with advantage, really lead to results that are
disastrous. Some of these are interspersed in the following examples,
and the adverse consequences with which they are pregnant traced to
their source. Thus by the publication of games with notes, a plan to
which Philidor led the way, the student steps by a short route on the
high ground, to which the guides who framed the artificial passage,
only reached by repeated labor and experience. But a gigantic genius,
it would seem, cannot conceive exactly what are the desiderata of a
mind of less compass; and Philidor left a trying distance between the
level from which the inexperienced would rise, and the steps at the
bottom of his ascending ladder. A professor, who is not incapacitated
by extraordinary powers from imagining where interposition is wanted,
may supply acceptable remedies for these vacuities.

Let us now attend the pupil at the board, and conduct him through such
evolutions as may fit him to appreciate and enjoy the enterprise and
spirit of Cunningham, the brilliant promptness at resource of Salvio,
and the comprehension and foresight of Philidor.

=_First Essay_=.

EXAMPLE I.

FIRST COUPLET OF MOVES.

    White. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    Black. The same.

                    2.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(a)
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at king’s bishop’s 3d square.(b)
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(c)

                    4.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the black[23] pawn.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the white pawn.

(a) Unless necessity call for it, no one of the other six pawns should
be moved until you have ascertained on which side to castle. The
queen’s pawn advances but one square, not so much because the black one
prevents his going farther as to support that of his own king.

(b): This move is partly accounted for by the remark on the last.

(c) The same remark will shew, that the whites are played with more
propriety than the blacks.

[23] Note. When there is but one piece that can move, or take, or be
taken, in the manner described; as it would be unnecessary, we shall
never circumstantially name it.

                    5.
    W. The king’s knight takes the black pawn.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.(d)

                    6.
    W. King’s knight at the king’s bishop’s 3d square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at queen’s 2d square.(e)

                    7.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.(f)
    B. Queen’s knight at queen’s bishop’s 3d square.

                    8.
    W. Queen’s bishop at queen’s knight’s 2d square.(g)
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.

(d) If this move had been made before, the king’s pawn of this party
might have been preserved; the snatching away of which, has rendered
them in situation and comparative strength, much inferior to their
adversaries.

(e) The chief object of this, and some subsequent moves, is the having
the king in readiness to castle.

(f) Finding that his adversary means to castle with the queen’s rook,
the player of the whites begins to get his opposite pawns ready to
advance.

(g) This attack on the black rook is not a good move; for the bringing
out of the black knight, which it incites as the only, though an easy
mode of parrying it—a movement which his player might not otherwise
have meditated—or if he had, must have lost a move in effecting—gives
the rook an opportunity to be very troublesome to the opposite pawns.

                    9.

    W. The queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(h)
    B. Queen at the king’s 2d square, giving the white king check.(i)

                    10.
    W. King’s bishop at king’s 2d square, covering the check.
    B. King’s rook at his knight’s square.

                    11.
    W. The king castles with his rook.(k)
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(l)

(h) This is to protect the knight’s pawn from the black knight.

(i) There is no impropriety in the queen’s standing thus before her
king, so long as no guarded rook of the counter set can be brought
to attack her; and while her player has several pieces that he could
interpose.

(k) If he did not castle now, he could not preserve his knight’s pawn
in it’s place, without forfeiting the privilege. To have advanced him a
square, would, however, have been better.

(l) To make way for the following move. If the white queen’s bishop had
not quitted his house, the command he would have had of the diagonal
into which this move is made, would have prevented it; which it will be
presently seen it was the interest of that player to have done.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(m)
    B. The queen’s bishop at the white king’s knight’s 4th square.(n)

                    13.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his king’s 4th square.(o)

(m) Any move that is properly made, and which preceding remarks, or a
subsequent move will shew the reason of, we shall not observe on. It
may, however, be of use to review the situations of the two sets of
pawns; those of the white party to the left of the king, are advanced
so as to derive from themselves all the support they want: whereas
the pawns to the left of the other player must depend entirely on the
superior pieces for protection. When pawns are seated, like these,
on files that do not adjoin, they are, considered by themselves, as
insecure as they can be.

(n) But if the pawns are played worse, the bishops and knights of this
party are played better than those of the other.

(o) The move of the white pawn, which was necessary to the prosecution
of the white queen’s scheme, gave the black knight an opportunity of
coming here without suspicion, as he seems to remove merely for his own
safety.

                    14.
    W. Queen at her rook’s 4th square.
    B. Queen’s bishop takes the white knight.

                    15.
    W. King’s bishop takes the black bishop.(p)
    B. The queen’s knight takes the white bishop, and gives check.(q)

                    16.
    W. The king retires to his rook’s square.
    B. The knight at the 4th square of the same rook.(r)

                    17.
    W. The queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square, discovering check.
    B. The king castles.

(p) From the cramped situation in which the player of the white’s too
eager attention to projects of offence, had left this bishop, whether
he takes the black one or not, he must be lost.

(q) Though the player of the blacks is a knight, and the difference
there is between a king’s bishop and a queen’s bishop, the better for
these exchanges; he might have conducted them in a way by which he
would have profited more essentially; as the third example will shew.

(r) To avoid being taken by the knight’s pawn.

                    18.
    W. The queen takes the black pawn, and gives check.(s)

    B. As the king, if he takes the queen, will be in check
       with the pawn, he is _check-mated_.(t)

(s) Had the white pawn made this capture, the black king, instead of
receiving the defeat which the present move has given him, by retiring
to his rook’s square, would have been a long while secure from any
further attack.

(t): But as he was made to castle when he did, merely to shew that it
is not _always_ a measure of safety; we shall, in the next example,
point out how he might have acted better.

⁂ When the student is conscious of having done wrong, and yet at a loss
to know what rule he has broke, he may conclude it to be the last, that
contained in section xxxii.: this is indeed so comprehensive, that all
the others might be resolved into it.

EXAMPLE II.

THE PRECEDING GAME CONTINUED FROM THE SIXTEENTH COUPLET.

_Note—Games which, like this, are taken up from others, are called
Back-Games._

                COUPLET 17.

    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square, discovering check.
    B. The knight covers the check.

                    18.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop’s pawn.(a)
    B. The king’s rook takes the opposite pawn.(b)

                    19.
    W. Queen at black queen’s knight’s 4th square.(c)
    B. Queen at her king’s 3d square.

(a) He is thus ready to be converted into a capital piece, and as long
as he remains there, will prevent the black king from moving into any
square on the queen’s part of the file.

(b) If the rook’s only object was to snatch this pawn and retire, it
was worth the effort; he has, however, something else in view.

(c) Intending at the next move, by taking the opposite pawn, to secure
making a bishop of his own.

                    20.
    W. Queen takes the black pawn.

    B. Queen at the white king’s rook’s 3d square.(d)

                    21.
    W. Queen takes the black rook, and gives check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d square.(e)

                    22.
    W. Queen at the black queen’s 4th square, giving check.(f)
    B. The king at his knight’s 3d square.(g)

(d) To seize this advantageous post, he has left a rook to be taken and
his king to be checked. The bold kind of play which each pursues, can
only be justified by a conviction that the result will be favourable.
Both, however, cannot have this conviction. The event will shew which
is right.

(e) He prefers this to his own second square, that he may not be
checked by the white rook.

(f) As the black queen, who cannot be dislodged, will, at her next
move, by taking the pawn, give the king check-mate—the player of the
whites has no other resource than constantly checking the black king—if
he cannot mate him, and can be stopped from checking, the moment he is,
he will lose the game.

(g) He takes care to move on white, that he may not be checked by the
bishop.

                    23.
    W. The queen at the black king’s 3d square, still giving check.(h)
    B. The king at his rook’s 4th square.

                    24.
    W. Queen at her own king’s 2d square, still giving check.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn 1 square, covering the check.

                    25.
    W. The queen at the black king’s square, still giving check.
    B. The knight covers the check.

                    26.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the black king’s 4th square.(i)
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

(h) If this player could give perpetual check, it would be a draw
game—fifty moves in this way would make it so—or a less number, if a
course of moves was begun that had before been made.

(i) As the queen can no longer check the king without being taken, the
bishop is placed here to prevent the black queen from taking the pawn;
which, however, he can do but for a moment.

                    27.
    W. The queen takes the pawn, and gives check.
    B. One of the knights takes the queen.(k)

                    28.
    W. The pawn is made a queen.

    B. Queen takes the rook’s pawn, and gives _check-mate_.

(k) If the player of the whites could in this way have lost all his
pieces, he would have won by being in a _stale_; this, however, from
their number, was never possible; or it would not have been prudent in
the adversary to have made the 20th move—a move which has won him the
game.

EXAMPLE III.

A SECOND BACK-GAME.

_Continued from the Thirteenth Couplet of_ EXAMPLE I.

                COUPLET 14.
    W. Queen at her rook’s 4th square.
    B. The knight takes the white knight, and gives check.

                    15.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the knight.(a)
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    16.
    W. The rook’s pawn 1 square.(b)
    B. The rook takes the opposite pawn, and gives check.

(a) If, instead of the bishop, the pawn had taken the knight; the black
bishop, by taking that pawn, would have given check-mate instantly.

(b) The object of this and the future moves of the white player, is
to prevent check-mate, which he now perceives the other thus early
to meditate. When the tyro has seen what these moves are, it will
edify him to try whether better ones might not have been adopted. On
this, however, and similar experiments, he must not hastily conclude;
because was he to move the whites not so well, and the blacks more than
proportionally worse, the necessary consequence might lead him to think
that he had moved the former better.

                    17.
    W. The king at his rook’s square.
    B. The rook takes the pawn, and discovers check from the bishop.

                    18.
    W. The king at his knight’s square.
    B. The queen at her king’s knight’s 2d square, giving check.

                    19.
    W. The king takes the rook.
    B. The queen advances to the white knight’s 3d square, and gives
       _check-mate_.(c)

(c) Without the co-operation of the black pawn, this could not have
been done. The player of the whites should have taken this straggler
before he proceeded to detach the queen.

EXAMPLE IV.

VARIATION TO THE FIRST BACK-GAME.

_Beginning from the Nineteenth Couplet of_ EXAMPLE II.

                COUPLET 20.
    W. The rook at his knight’s square.(a)
    B. Queen at her king’s knight’s 3d square.(b)

                    21.
    W. The rook at the king’s square, checking.(c)
    B. The bishop covers the check.

                    22.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the pawn.

                    23.
    W. Queen takes the rook, and gives check.(d)
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d square.

(a) He offers to change rooks, that such a dangerous neighbour as the
black one may be either taken or driven away.

(b) This, however, not only prevents either, but keeps the white queen
from going to the black king’s rook’s 4th square; by which the black
knight, whose vicinity is as incompatible as the rook’s with the safety
of the white king, would have been obliged to remove to cover the check.

(c) To remain, or to remove without checking the adversary, would have
been equally dangerous.

(d) As the player of the whites cannot remove either of the pieces
menacing his king, he has now, as he had in Example II. no other way of
defending him than attacking the black one.

                    24.
    W. The pawn becomes a bishop.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    25.
    W. The bishop takes the knight.
    B. The rook at the black knight’s square giving check.

                    26.
    W. The rook takes the rook.(e)

    B. The queen at the white king’s 4th square,
    giving check-mate.

(e) If the king had taken the rook, the game would have lasted one
move longer. In that case the black queen must have gone to her king’s
knight 3d square, and then to the black knight’s 2d square; so she
should have done, if, at the 24th move, instead of that set down, the
white knight had gone to his queen’s bishop’s 3d square.

_Remarks._

⁂ Of two different modes of playing, both of which end in a defeat,
that is the best which protracts the game the longest.

†§† No game can end so soon as the longest form of that we have already
given, that is played throughout well on both sides.

=_Second Essay_=.

EXAMPLE V.

_Exhibiting Situations rendered critical by Enterprise, and the
Resources of Play in those Situations._

                COUPLET 1.
    White. KING’s pawn 2 squares.
    Black. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at queen’s bishop’s 4th square.(a)
    B. The same.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(b)
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.

(a) Not for any purpose that it will immediately answer, but that he
may escape the obstruction, which, if it should be necessary to advance
the queen’s pawn a square, would be opposed by his moving directly out.
We have seen in Example III. that by a pawn on one side, and a knight
on the other, this bishop was so embarrassed, as not to be able to move
even for his own preservation.

(b) The having two pawns a-breast of each other, at houses 4. of the
king and queen, secured by the changes which brought them there from
capture by pieces of their own quality, and therefore, in their further
progress to the promotion line, easily protected— is a great step
towards making one of them a queen. To have them in this position,
is the object of the present and several succeeding moves: of the
corresponding moves of the blacks, the object is to prevent it.

                    4.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(c)
    B. The same.(d)

                    5.
    W. The bishop takes the pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    6.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The knight takes the pawn.(e)

                    7.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the king’s 3d square.
    B. The knight at the king’s 3d square.(f)

(c) To provoke the black pawn to capture him, on the presumption that
his player would prefer doing that to retiring with his bishop—The
player of the whites intending afterwards to supply his place by a
reprisal.

(d) The player of the blacks, willing neither to take the pawn nor to
retire with his bishop, plays this pawn here, in order that if the
white one takes his bishop, he may retaliate in kind.

(e) The plan of having two pawns in the middle of the exchequer is thus
rendered abortive. The bringing this knight out was the principal mean
of defeating it.

(f) This leaves the king’s bishop liable to be changed for the bishop
of the adversary’s queen. If, however, the knight had not moved at all,
or moved otherwise, his player might have been obliged to an exchange,
in which the difference against him would have been of real moment.

                    8.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.(g)
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    9.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.(h)
    B. Queen at king’s 2d square.

(g) Between equal players the minutest advantage should be seized on.
It may be observed here, that the superestimation of the king’s bishop
over the bishop of the queen, rests on his not being prevented by
the colour of his field, from checking the adversary at his original
square. The white player having had the first move, the other could not
well have foiled him, with regard to the pawns, at a less expence.

(h) That he may not be taken by the knight if the bishop should remove.

_Variation._

To protect him from the knight, instead of pushing him a square, the
queen’s knight is moved to the 3d house of the queen’s bishop. This
would be ineffective—the adversary, by placing his king’s knight at his
king’s bishop’s 3d square, might counteract it so completely as to make
the bishop retreat at the same time that he secured taking the pawn—at
least, secured an exchange, by which he would get the pawn to boot.

                    10.
    W. King’s knight at king’s bishop’s 3d square.(i)
    B. Queen’s bishop at the white king’s knight’s 4th square.(k)

                    11.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.(l)
    B. Bishop takes the knight.

                    12.
    W. Queen takes the bishop.
    B. Queen takes the pawn, and gives check.

                    13.
    W. The king castles.
    B. Queen takes the rook.

                    14.
    W. Pawn takes the knight.
    B. The king castles.(m)

                    15.
    W. Knight at queen’s bishop’s 3d square.(n)
    B. Queen at the knight’s 2d square.(o)

(i) To support the pawn.

(k) An adventurous speculation, in which the risk is but little.

(l) Ditto.

(m) To preserve the means of preservation.

(n) To lay an embargo on the black queen.

(o) Any where else, she would be taken.

                    16.
    W. The rook at the same knight’s 1st square.(p)
    B. The rook at his king’s square.(q)

                    17.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.(r)
    B. Queen at the white queen’s 2d square.(s)

                    18.
    W. Bishop takes the bishop’s pawn.
    B. Rook at the white king’s square, giving check.(t)

                    19.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. Queen takes the rook, and checks.

(p) The comment on the next is a comment on this.

(q) If the black queen had moved aside into one of the three squares to
which her sphere of action is at present reduced, the white rook, by
taking the pawn opposite, might have ensured check-mate in another move.

(r) Had the queen’s rook taken the black queen, the black king’s rook,
by crossing to the white king’s square, would have won the game; by the
present move, that way of receiving check-mate is rendered impossible.
In advancing a pawn to the adverse party, let it always be as far as is
consistent with security.

(s) In order to extricate herself.

(t) He does this, which will cause him to be exchanged for the
white rook, to save his own king from the check-mate which is still
impending, and which, had the white queen been suffered to take his
king’s knight’s pawn, would by now have been inflicted.

                    20.
    W. The king removes.
    B. Queen at her king’s 4th square, still giving check.(s)

                    21.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn covers the check.
    B. Queen takes the other pawn.

                    22.
    W. Knight at the king’s 4th square.
    B. Queen at her king’s 2d square.

                    23.
    W. Queen at her knight’s 3d square.
    B. Queen takes the knight.

                    24.
    W. Bishop at the black queen’s 4th square.
    B. Queen takes the bishop.(t)

(s) The black queen has thus made a triumphant retreat. To the
advantages which sometimes attend giving check, although it can
be easily eluded or covered, already enumerated, may be added
that of gaining a move. There is still another: under the present
circumstances, the taking of a piece is ensured by it.

(t) This player could not do better to prevent the check-mate, which
the white queen would else have given, by taking the pawn.

                    25.
    W. Queen takes the queen.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(u)

                    26.
    W. Queen at the black king’s 4th square.(v1)
    B. Knight at his bishop’s 3d square.(v2)

                    27.
    W. Queen at the black king’s 2d square.
    B. Rook at his knight’s square.

(u) That the liability of check-mate by the white minister’s stepping
into their first rank may at once be quashed. An instance similar has
before occurred. Of the moves in general now, but a few, we imagine,
will require to be observed on.

(v2) To preserve his pawn (v1) (v2). The subsequent moves will for some
time be conducted on the plan of these. Of the player of the whites,
inferior in numbers, though not in force, the object is, either to
take, or keep in inaction, these pieces of the adversary preparatory to
advancing his own pawns on this side. The pawns of the adversary on the
other side, which are so disposed that he could make no impression on
them, he is not concerned at present to obstruct any otherwise than his
movements in this quarter virtually will. The object of the player of
the blacks will declare itself.

                    28.
    W. Queen at the black king’s bishop’s 2d square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(w)

                    29.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    30.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Rook at the queen’s square.(x)

                    31.
    W. Queen takes the knight’s pawn.
    B. Rook at the queen’s 3d square.(y)

(w) Of the rook, the knight, and the knight’s pawn on the other side,
no one can move without one of them being taken; this player has,
therefore, no better alternative than urging to promotion the pawns on
this.

(x) The advancing a white pawn on the black knight, a step that is
in readiness, would have enabled the white queen to make great havoc
among the pieces she hovers over, had this rook remained where he was.
The present movement, and timely sacrifice of a pawn will prevent any
further uncompensated loss.

(y) The knight protects the pawn, the rook protects the knight.

                    32.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(z)
    B. Rook at the white queen’s 2d, giving check.(a)

                    33.
    W. The king at his rook’s 3d.(b)
    B. The knight at the queen’s 4th.

                    34.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. The rook takes the pawn.

                    35.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

(z) The opportunity of giving check, which the white queen neglects, is
one of those cases in which it ought to be avoided. The black king, by
removing to his queen’s bishop’s 2d, would have covered both himself
and the rook; and the whites (including the loss of one to themselves
and the gain of one to their adversaries) would have sustained a
difference against them of two moves.

(a) This secures an equivalent for the pawn which the knight will be
forced to desert.

(b) The king, when his pieces are advancing to the adversary’s side,
should keep as near to them as possible.

                    36.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King at his queen’s knight’s 2d.(c)

                    37.
    W. The pawn becomes a rook and discovers check.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    38.
    W. Rook at black queen’s knight’s square, giving check.(d)
    B. King at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.(e)

(c) If the king did not remove now, the white pawn, on becoming a rook,
would check-mate him.

(d) Though it is not to be presumed that the player of the whites, with
his present force, will check-mate the other, yet he is now acting
rightly; for were he to refrain any longer from offence, his adversary
would make a queen before he could make an additional rook, and perhaps
turn the tables on him. What he aims at present, is not a mate, nor
primarily a capture; but to bring about such a change in the position
of the blacks, that the foremost of his pawns may wrest the move from
the foremost of theirs.

(e) Any where else he would, probably, either soon lose his rook, or
suffer a worse disaster.

                    39.
    W. Rook at the black queen’s bishop’s square, still checking.
    B. The king at the white queen’s 4th square.(f)

                    40.
    W. The queen at her king’s 4th giving check.
    B. The king at the white queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    41.
    W. The queen takes the knight.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    42.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(g)
    B. The king at the white queen’s knight’s 2d.(h)

                43 and 44.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

(f) Had he gone to the white queen’s knight’s 4th square—and had the
white queen then moved to the 1st square of that knight—the loss of the
black rook would have been inevitable.

(g) The remaining black pieces are posited so, that an attempt at this
time to make any further capture, or to give check-mate, might only
bring their pawns nearer to promotion. As this piece has now the start,
this is the moment to push him on.

(h) He thus makes way for the black pawn without exposing either
himself or the rook.

                    45.
    W. Queen at the black king’s knight’s 4th square.(i)
    B. Rook at the white queen’s rook’s square.

                    46.
    W. The queen at the black king’s 4th square, checking.
    B. King at the white queen’s knight’s square.

                    47.
    W. The pawn becomes a rook.
    B. The pawn becomes a queen.

                    48.
    W. The rook takes the queen.
    B. The king takes the rook.

                    49.
    W. The queen takes the rook, and checks.
    B. The king at the white queen’s 2d.(k)

(i) For some of the moves commented on, we were in doubt whether the
tyro, unaided, could in passing have accounted: of this, and the
following ones, we are persuaded he will at once see the reason.

(k) As check-mate is unavoidable, it is a matter of indifference what
moves he makes. He adopts those which will put off the evil longest. We
set them down merely that the game may not seem unfinished.

                    50.
    W. The rook at the black queen’s square, giving check.
    B. King at the white queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    51.
    W. The rook checks again.
    B. King at the white queen’s 3d.

                    52.
    W. The queen at her bishop’s 3d square, giving check.
    B. The king removes.

                    53.
    W. The rook checks.
    B. The king at the square of the white queen.

                    54.
    W. The rook at his king’s square, gives _check-mate_.

The move at which the fortune of the blacks began to decline, and at
which a back-game may with most interest be taken up, is that where
the queen takes the white knight (couplet 23). At the moment before
(numbers and force considered apart from position) the advantage was
on their side. What followed this move will impress on the student,
that whenever an adversary seems to expose a piece to capture without
securing an equivalent, or without securing a proper one the reprisal
which the white bishop might have made on the black knight, as it
would have spoilt the position of the white pieces, and lessened their
comparative strength, could not be considered a proper one] he must not
attribute to accident what may be the effect of design, and take the
exposed piece without hesitation. If the player he is contending with
be not contemptible, it is rather to be suspected that he has, as the
player of the whites had in the present case, some ambuscaded motive
for losing the piece: whether he has or no, it behooves the student,
before taking it, well to examine.

The game just ended, affords occasion likewise to observe, that sudden
incursions on the adversary’s pieces are only to be made with caution.
The 13th move of the blacks, the difficulty with which the queen
retreats, and her being once within an ace of capture, very forcibly
suggest this maxim. Of this move, however, we do not mean to impeach
the propriety.

At the 10th move, to have acted more systematically, the black bishop
should have stopped at the 4th square of the bishop of his king. In
the counterstep to this and other moves, the whites, too, might have
acted more systematically: but as we mean to give separate examples of
that kind of play, from which these are deviations, and as many of the
intervening moves are properly consequent one of the other, it will not
be necessary to begin any variation of the last example at an earlier
move than the 1st of the 23d couplet.

FIRST SCALE OF POWERS.

The introductory chapter classes the pieces in the order of their
relative values; but nothing is added of the ratio in value, which
two or three inferior pieces bear to a superior, or two superior; as
the introduction of minute discriminations, before the attainment
of some practical knowledge, might have perplexed the reader. As,
however, situations occur on the board, in which it is necessary that
the most critical calculations of force should be consulted, and as
the propriety of accepting or declining some exchanges depends on
punctilious considerations, it is thought proper to give, as a prelude
to the remaining examples, the following scale:

    2⅕,        14,
    9,         15,
    9,         28.

With respect to qualification for attack and defence, the facility of
conducing to these ends, by a stationary attitude, or by moving, and
extent of action, the powers of the pawn, the knight, the king, the
bishop, the rook, and the queen, are to each other in this proportion.

The values of all the pieces, except the pawn and king, are
commensurate with their powers.

The nature of the game puts the king’s value above competition.

The value of every pawn, taking into the account the probability of his
becoming a capital piece, is on the average, about 5⅖.

SECOND SCALE OF POWERS.

In the foregoing estimate, of the five superior pieces the highest
force is taken; that is to say, each is supposed to be in that part of
the board where its sphere of action is largest: assuming, however,
that in play the probability of their occupying any given square is
equal, their powers will be,

    2³²/₁₆₀,   Pawn     9¹²⁰/₁₆₀,  Bishop
    6⁴⁰/₁₆₀,   Knight  15,         Rook
    7⁹⁰/₁₆₀,   King    23¹²⁰/₁₆₀ , Queen.

The pawn’s chance of promotion makes his value 4¹⁴³/₁₆₀.

It will be perceived, that by this scale, the relative powers of the
pawn and rook, with respect to each other, remain as before; while with
respect to the other pieces, that of the former is trivially, and that
of the latter, greatly enhanced.

In finding both scales, the part of the board within the sphere of each
respective piece wherever it is placed, is supposed to be unoccupied.

As the player cannot always put the pieces where their range of action
will be the most extensive, the latter scale is the safer to be
adopted, as a datum from which to estimate their values, in balancing
one piece against two pieces, two against three, previously to
suffering or effecting such a kind of exchange.

EXAMPLE VI.

THE SECOND ESSAY CONTINUED FROM THE TWENTY-SECOND COUPLET.

                COUPLET 23.
    W. The queen at her knight’s 3d square.
    B. The knight at his rook’s 3d square.(a)

                    24.
    W. The bishop at the black queen’s 4th.(b)
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(c)

                    25.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(d)
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

(a) His standing before the pawns on this side is of no consequence, as
their only use will be to obstruct the white ones: those on the other
side are what this player must expect to promote. The only other way of
preserving this knight, moving the black queen to the 1st rank, would
have been a bad step.

(b) He would have been safe before the black queen; but by thus
threatening check-mate he gains a move, and is in a better position.

(c) The king must not only not move into check himself, but no piece
must move so as to expose him to it; therefore, if, instead of this,
the bishop’s pawn had moved a square, the white bishop might have taken
his assailant with security.

(d) To keep the black knight from checking the king. Had this pawn
been moved further, the black knight, at the white knight’s 4th house,
supported by the black queen and rook’s pawn, would have totally
obstructed him and his companions.

                    26.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Rook at his king’s bishop’s square.(e)

                    27.
    W. The king at his rook’s 3d square.(f)
    B. Knight at his bishop’s 2d square.(g)

                    28.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Knight at his king’s 4th square.

(e) As, from the impendence of the white queen and bishop, the
protection of both the knight and the rook is necessary to the pawns
on the other side, moving forward with safety, this player is about to
transfer them there.

(f) To sustain the rook’s pawn when that of the knight advances.

(g) He could not get to the square he is going to without first coming
here: to protect him in this first stage of his gambit[24], was the
chief reason of placing the rook where he is.

[24] A gambit is an indirect and circuitous movement, by several
intermediate steps, to a particular square. In a larger sense, a gambit
is a game mostly made up of such movements; it, perhaps, includes the
idea of one player being quickly circumvented.

                    29.
    W. Knight at the black king’s knight’s 4th square.(h)
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    30.
    W. Knight at the black king’s 3d square.
    B. Rook at the queen’s bishop’s 1st square.

                    31.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(i)
    B. Knight at his queen’s 2d square.

(h) He moved to save the king’s bishop’s pawn, now amply protected. The
pieces are so arranged, you see, that if the black player was to begin
exchanging, the white one would have the last capture. At the time of
observing (g) the reverse was the case.

(i) Pawns, as they are pushed on, increase in value. Of a set of pawns,
one at least of which you are striving to promote, neither should, if
possible, be moved without having a piece as guardian, should no enemy
at the moment be at hand; for a sudden occurrence, the same which may
prevent you from providing for his safety, may bring an adversary in
a position to command him. But though this pawn, as thus moved, is in
the predicament of having no support, it would have been still worse
to have stirred any other; if the rook’s pawn had advanced a square,
the knight’s pawn of the blacks, by advancing two squares, might have
completely blockaded all three. A circumspect resiler from enterprise,
instead of moving either, would have placed the king behind the
knight’s pawn.

                    32.
    W. Knight at his queen’s 4th square.(k)
    B. Queen at the king’s bishop’s 3d square.(l)

                    33.
    W. The knight gives check.
    B. The king at the rook’s square.

                    34.
    W. The knight at the black king’s 2d square discovering check.
    B. The bishop’s pawn covers the check.

                    35.
    W. The knight takes the rook.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

                    36.
    W. The queen takes the pawn and gives check.
    B. The king removes.

(k) This more than prevents the black pawn’s being advanced upon the
bishop.

(l) She could not do better. If the black bishop’s pawn had been moved
against the bishop, the white knight would have taken him. If the
rook had taken the knight, the bishop would then have taken the rook.
Combinations, such as these, may be carried to a great extent, and very
much try the skill of the player.

                    37.
    W. Queen takes the knight.
    B. Queen at the white queen’s bishop’s 3d square, giving check.(m)

                    38.
    W. King at his rook’s 2d square.
    B. The queen takes the knight.

                    39.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The king takes the queen.

                    40.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(n)

_Variation._ (m) This queen takes the king’s bishop’s pawn.

                    38.
    The white knight takes the pawn.
    The black queen at the white king’s 3d square, giving check.

                    39.
    The white king removes.
    The black queen takes the knight.

                    40.
    The white queen takes the pawn—and so on.

    The result is, as it will be of the present way of moving,
    that the black king is check-mated.

(n) Nothing better could be done than to offer this. Paradoxical as it
may seem to the unpractised reader, if the three pawns on the queen’s
side of the board were entirely away, the player of the blacks would
be better off. By moving his king to intercept the white ones, and
by judiciously managing his own, he might then, and the other could
not help it, so exchange one for one, that to the white king and
single pawn left, his own would at length stand opposed in the manner
described at the end of Section xxx; the consequence of which would be,
that the adversary, to avoid a stale, would resign his pawn, content
neither to beat nor be beaten. But, circumstanced as he now is, the
player of the blacks would be soonest check-mated on the interception
plan. We will suppose him to have gone upon it, and to have arrived at
the point just mentioned. The white king instead of surrendering his
pawn, closely supports him, leaving the black king without a move, and,
but for having other pieces, in a stale. Then follows the move at which
we are pausing. The white pawn takes the pawn, and leaves the black
queen’s rook’s a free passage. The white pawn gets to the promotion
line a move before his rival, and at the moment of doing so, gives
check-mate.

                    41.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(o)
    B. The queen’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.

(o) It is better now to lose a pawn than a move. If the queen’s
rook’s pawn were to take the black one, the other player would make a
queen first; for the black queen’s rook’s pawn having then nothing to
interrupt him, would be virtually a move before either of the other
white ones; and as to the capturing pawn, then in the knight’s file,
the black king need not lose the time of one step to keep him from
promotion.

                    42.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    43.
    W. The pawn takes the king’s rook’s pawn.
    B. The queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    44.
    W. The king’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    45.
    W. The pawn becomes a queen, and gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d square.

                    46.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. The queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    47.
    W. The queen at her knight’s 2d square.
    B. The king moves obliquely to his right.

Though at the risk of dividing the reader’s attention, we have been
fuller on the part just preceding, in order that it may serve as a
precedent for cases not exactly similar. The moves after this, however,
will require no remark from us.

                    48.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. The king moves to support his remaining pawn.

                    49.
    W. The queen at her rook’s 3d.
    B. The king where he can support the pawn without being checked.

                    50, &c.

When the queen made the last capture, the game was virtually ended. If,
however, the player of the blacks is obstinate enough still to continue
it, the following is the most summary way of mating him.

From 50 to 54, the white king crosses toward his queen, the black king
in the mean time regrading in the same two squares, so as to prevent
the queen, who remains inactive, from taking his pawn: 55, (the white
king being at his queen’s bishop’s 3d square) the queen gives check;
the king removes: 56 to the end, the queen takes the pawn, and in
concert with her king, effects the check-mate.

EXAMPLE VII.

A SECOND BACK-GAME TO EXAMPLE V. TAKEN UP AFTER THE 24th COUPLET OF
EXAMPLE VI. pa. 85.

                COUPLET 25.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight at the bishop’s 4th square.

                    26.
    W. The king at his rook’s 3d square.(a)
    B. The knight at the white queen’s 4th.(b)

                    27.
    W. Queen at her own 3d square.(c)
    B. Queen at her king’s 4th square.(d)

                    28.
    W. Knight at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.(e)
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

(a) Combining with his knight’s, in support of his rook’s pawn.

(b) Instead of supporting his right hand pawns from behind, as he did
in the last game, in order to advance them against the white queen
and bishop—a plan that was found unsuccessful—this player is now
endeavouring to remove the white queen and bishop in the first instance.

(c) To save herself and the pawn.

(d) Chiefly to preserve her knight.

(e) To protect the bishop.

                    29.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    30.
    W. The bishop at his king’s 4th square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(f)

                    31.
    W. Queen at the square of her king’s bishop.(g)
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    32.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d.(h)

                    33.
    W. Queen at her king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

(f) Pawns, whose only use is obstruction, can seldom promote their
object by moving forwards[25]—and therefore, while there is any thing
to do in another quarter, they should in general only be moved, as this
has been now, for self-preservation.

[25] When those they are to stop are more than a step off, they never
can.

(g) To support the bishop’s pawn in his next move.

(h) In employing only the king to escort his pawns, to which he is at
present adequate—and reserving his rook as an ambuscaded check to the
advancement of the white ones—this player pursues an eligible policy.

                    34.
    W. Queen at her king’s knight’s 4th.(i)
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    35.
    W. Queen at the black king’s rook’s 4th square.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    36.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his queen’s rook’s 4th.

                    37.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The same.(k)

(i) The white pawns are very critically situated, for they can hardly
move without committing themselves. Had the knight’s advanced a square,
and his immediate opponent two squares, an uncompensated loss would
have been inevitable; so that this move of the queen, though not the
most obvious, is, perhaps, the best that could be made.

(k) This is far better than moving the queen away. When one is sure
of promoting a pawn before the adversary—if an occasion of exchanging
queen for queen does not offer, it ought to be sought—that the
preponderance which the promoted pawn will give, may be as great as
possible.

                    38.
    W. Queen takes the pawn of the black knight.(l)
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    39.
    W. The pawn takes the queen.
    B. The king’s rook’s pawn takes the knight’s.

                    40.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s 3d square.(m)
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    41.
    W. The knight at his king’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    42.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(n)

(l) This, and not the reverse, that his pawns may not be doubled, or
two in a file—which, had this player taken the queen, would have been
the case. Doubling pawns is chiefly to be avoided, when, as here, there
would be no pawn in an adjoining file: when there are others to support
them, it is an evil so evanescent, that no sacrifice ought to be made
to prevent it.

(m) To make way for the knight.

(n) If he had taken the pawn, the critical square would have been
within the range of the white bishop.

                    43.
    W. Knight at the black king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    44.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Rook takes the pawn of the white rook, and gives check.(o)

                    45.
    W. The king at his knight’s 3d square.
    B. The pawn becomes a queen.

                    46.
    W. The pawn becomes a queen.
    B. The queen at the white king’s knight’s square,
       giving check-mate.

(o) The rook’s forbearing this capture thus long, is an exemplication
of rule 21. If it had been material to prevent the white player from
having a queen, this player would have detached the rook along his own
rank to a square out of the knight’s reach; and on the white pawn’s
becoming a queen, would have exchanged the rook for the queen.

=_The Scholar’s-Mate_=.

EXAMPLE VIII.

_Meditating and evading that Stratagem._

                 COUPLET 1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at the queen’s bishop’s 4th square.
    B. The same.

                    3.
    W. The queen at the black king’s rook’s 4th square.(a)
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.(b)

(a) In this example, and the rest that make up the section, which after
the 2d move are very different from those that go before, it is rather
the movements of the blacks than of the whites that are proposed for
imitation. The mode to be pursued by one player, depends in a great
measure on that pursued by the other: we have therefore given these,
that the tyro might not be surprised into a defeat, or uncompensated
loss, if an opponent, having the first move, should at the 3d couplet
take the same step that the whites have done here—a step of that
fundamental kind, that the future aspect of the game is influenced
materially by it.

(b) She thus prevents the white queen, as well from taking the king’s,
as from giving check-mate by taking the bishop’s pawn.

                    4.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. Knight at the black king’s knight’s 4th.(c)
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    6.
    W. The bishop takes the pawn and gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    7.
    W. The queen at her king’s rook’s 4th.(d)
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

(c) The object of the white player now is, either to snatch a piece
and retire, or, by the sacrifice of a knight or a bishop, make a
practicable breach in the black pawns.

(d) The remaining moves, declare their object.

The reader will observe, that the game might be finished at the 4th
couplet; which is the earliest termination it can well be made to
receive, and is called the _scholar’s-mate_.

The game may be finished in two couplets, the fatal stroke being given
by the second move of the second player: but there requires so much
fatuity to permit this, that it has the name of the _fools-mate_.

                    8.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight takes the king’s pawn.

                    9.
    W. The pawn takes the knight.
    B. King’s rook at his bishop’s square.

                    10.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s bishop at the white king’s bishop’s 2d square,
       giving check.

                    11.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. The rook takes the queen.

                    12.
    W. The king takes the rook.
    B. The queen takes the knight, &c. &c.(e)

(e) As the forces of both are at par, or nearly so, and the intricacies
consequent on the 3d, 4th, and 5th steps gotten over, it is not
essential to our purpose to proceed any further. If the reader likes to
pursue the subject, the economy of the pawns and other pieces during
the rest of the game, is not very different from the finishings in the
second essay. In the mean time we submit to him some variations, all
of which, however, as soon as the blacks are equal or superior to the
whites, and the future moves of both, independent of those that have
preceded, will, like this, be discontinued.

EXAMPLE IX.

MOVES CONSEQUENT ON THE ATTEMPT TO GIVE THE SCHOLAR’S-MATE.

_Beginning after the Sixth Couplet of_ EXAMPLE VIII.

                 COUPLET 7.
    W. The queen at her king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    W. The bishop takes the knight’s pawn.
    B. The queen takes the knight.

                    9.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The pawn takes the queen.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.

                    11.
    W. The bishop at the black bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook at his bishop’s square.

                    12.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop takes the pawn, and checks.

                    13.
    W. The king at his 2d square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    14.
    W. King’s rook at his bishop’s square.(a)
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the white king’s knight’s 4th, checking.

                    16.
    W. King at his queen’s 2d.
    B. King at his 1st square.

                    17.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The bishop takes the pawn.

                    18.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The king takes the rook.

                    19.
    W. The knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. The bishop at the white rook’s 4th.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square, &c.

(a) Owing to this, the black bishop cannot move without exposing the
rook. To save his bishop, and the knight’s pawn, or to lose neither
without a recompense, will require the black player’s utmost skill.

EXAMPLE X.

_Beginning after the Ninth Couplet of_ EXAMPLE IX.

                COUPLET 10.
    W. The bishop at the black bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    11.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The knight at the white knight’s 4th.

                    12.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(a)
    B. The knight takes the rook’s pawn.

                    13.
    W. The king at his queen’s square.(b)
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(c)

(a) The white player _must_ lose one of the pawns without a recompense,
and had he suffered this to be taken, he would have lost two—because
the knight would then have attacked the king’s pawn and rook, and both
could not have been saved.

(b) If the king had not removed, the black knight would have taken the
bishop’s pawn and given check; the consequence would have been, that
the rook as well as the pawn, would have been lost for the mere knight.
Now the knight cannot remove without exposing his own rook.

(c) Of his gambit, which he may not have occasion to finish, the object
is, to support the black rook when the other knight removes.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the black king’s knight’s 4th, giving check.
    B. The knight covers the check.

                    16.
    W. The bishop at the black bishop’s 3d.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    17.
    W. The bishop takes the rook.
    B. The pawn 1 square.

                    18.
    W. The king at his 2d square.
    B. Queen’s bishop gives check.

                    19.
    W. The king at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The pawn becomes a queen.

                    20.
    W. The rook takes the queen.
    B. The knight takes the rook and gives check.

                    21.
    W. The king at his 1st square.
    B. The king castles.

                    22.
    W. Bishop at black king’s bishop’s 3d, &c.

EXAMPLE XI.

_Beginning, like the last, after the 9th Couplet of_ EXAMPLE IX.

                 COUPLET 10.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    11.
    W. The bishop at the black king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.(a)

                    12.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    13.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The knight takes the 1st pawn in the king’s bishop’s file.

    -----------------------------------------------
             _Variation._
                    11.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 3d.

                    12.
    W. The bishop at the black bishop’s 4th.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop(a), &c.
    -----------------------------------------------

(a) Had the black player suffered the white bishop to take his bishop,
moving out his knight in order to capture him with his rook, he would
be unable to break the white pawns.

                    14.
    W. The pawn takes the knight.
    B. King’s rook at his bishop’s square.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook takes the pawn.

                    16.
    W. King’s rook at his bishop’s square, &c. &c.

EXAMPLE XII.

_Beginning after the Seventh Couplet of_ EXAMPLE IX.

                COUPLET 8.
    W. The knight at the black king’s 3d square, giving check.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    9.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The king takes the queen.

                    10.
    W. The bishop takes the pawn.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    11.
    W. The bishop at the black bishop’s 4th.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    12.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. The king’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight takes the pawn, &c. &c.

A better mode to be pursued by the blacks than any yet exhibited, is
the following.

EXAMPLE XIII.

_Beginning at the Fifth Couplet of_ EXAMPLE VIII.

                 COUPLET 5.
    W. Knight at the black king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. The bishop takes the pawn, and gives check.
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    7.
    W. The knight takes the rook’s pawn.
    B. Queen’s knight at the queen’s 2d.

                    8.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s knight at the king’s bishop’s square.(a)

                    9.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook takes the knight.

                    10.
    W. The queen at her home, &c. &c.

(a) The player of the white knight, feeling his insecurity, would be
glad to exchange him; therefore had this knight gone to the bishop’s
3d square instead of the 1st, the white one would have taken him. The
white knight, by giving check, would have afforded his queen time to
remove from the rook.

EXAMPLE XIV.

_Beginning after the Seventh Couplet of_ EXAMPLE XIII.

                 COUPLET 8.
    W. Queen at the black king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen at the white king’s rook’s 4th.(a)

                    9.
    W. Knight’s pawn 1 square.(b)
    B. The queen takes the knight.

                    10.
    W. The queen takes the queen.(c)
    B. The rook takes the queen, &c. &c.

(a) If, instead of this, the black knight had moved, as in the 8th move
of the last Example, the white knight would have taken him.

(b) If the white player had neglected this move to take the pawn in his
queen’s power, the black queen, would have captured, in addition to
the bishop’s pawn, by afterwards successively checking the king, two
or three other pawns, without ultimately suffering the white knight to
escape.

(c) It was not a matter of indifference whether or not be exchanged the
queen: if he had not, he must have lost the king’s pawn uncompensated.

GENERAL REMARKS.

On the part of the blacks it is to be observed, that the result of
the two last ways of moving, though something more in their favour
than the result of any of the others, is not so decidedly superior as
at the first view it may seem. The white player’s having preserved
all his pawns entire is a circumstance that almost counter-balances
his disadvantages; for to prevent one of the three white pawns on the
king’s side from becoming a queen, the other player must exchange for
them, at least two knights and the pawn opposite: Suppose these changes
to have taken place, and the difference in favour of the blacks will be
very inconsiderable.

With respect to the propriety of the reader’s opening the game in
this way, when his having the first move puts it in his power, we
know but one case in which there would be any.—When there is any
reason to think, that, from the antagonist’s estrangement to it,
notwithstanding his having had some practice, the triumph of beating
him in four moves might be attained[26]. In such a case, as there is
a probability of snatching a piece on its failure, and as no decisive
loss is to be apprehended if one be defeated even in that, it cannot
be very imprudent to try it. Another consideration which, in such a
case, lessens the impropriety, is, that if you meet with success,
either complete or partial, the adversary, at his turn of moving first,
may be induced to adopt the same mode, which most probably, from its
novelty, will to him be disastrous. As soon as this stratagem ceases
to profit, or if it fails in the first instance, it will of course be
instinctively resigned.

[26] If he is inexperienced, it will be no triumph.

A deviation on this plan, from the maxim, “Never count on the mistakes
of your adversary, or act as if you expected him to adopt measures
different from those which you would adopt in his situation,” is,
perhaps, the only kind of one not very reprehensible.

EXAMPLE XV.

=_Game of Involved Combinations_=,

A STUDY.

COUPLET 1.
    W. King’s pawn 2 squares.(a)
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at the queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(b)

(a) That this move should precede all the others, is right in theory as
well as in practice. We add the following, which is more definite, to
the reasons directly or indirectly already dropt for it. The rooks are
useless at the beginning of the game,—the knights, to step out, require
no pawn to be moved,—the bishops cannot render their immediate service
without an opening;—the advancement of the king’s pawns 2 squares,
which leaves the king’s bishop and queen at liberty to act, without
exposing the king, either in front or obliquely, is therefore dictated
by propriety, as the preliminary movement. And there are other reasons,
if it would not divide the attention to give them here.

(b) This move, in these circumstances, may now and then be used with
advantage as a change, instead of that which places the king’s bishop
at the same square; it will, though the adversary has the first move,
prevent him from getting two pawns a-breast in the centre—and if he be
unused to it, rather confine and disconcert his other operations: at
the same time, your own king’s bishop will, in some degree, be cramped
by it.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d. †
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d. ⸸

                    4.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d. †

                    5.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square. ⸸
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    7.
    W. King’s bishop at queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s knight takes the pawn.

                    9.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

_Remarks._

†⸸ The moves, with this mark (†) will be found to menace, with this (⸸)
to parry.

                    10.
    W. Queen at her 3d square. †
    B. King’s knight at the queen’s 3d.(c)

                    11.
    W. King’s bishop at the black queen’s 4th.(d)
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    12.
    W. Queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    13.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(e)

                    14.
    W. King’s bishop takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

                    15.
    W. The queen takes the pawn, and gives check.
    B. Queen’s bishop covers the check.

(c) Saving himself and the pawn.

(d) With a view to take the king’s pawn with his knight, which would be
secured from the black knight by the ambuscade on the rook; and if he
be disappointed in the way he expects, with another view.

(e) To save the king from check-mate.

                    16.
    W. Queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.(f)
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d. †(g)

                    17.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square. ⸸(h)
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    18.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. Knight at the white queen’s bishop’s 4th. †

                    19.
    W. Queen at the black queen’s bishop’s 3d, giving check. ‡
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.

(f) This player’s object now will be to promote the pawns on his
queen’s side as soon as he can.

(g) This player having no pawns which he has any prospect of promoting,
at least while those on the adverse king’s side remain unbroken, cannot
do better than, availing himself of his superiority in other pieces,
endeavour to snatch some of the pawns of the adversary; attacking him
first on one wing, then on the other, and bringing two or three pieces
to bear upon one.

(h) If the knight’s pawn, with a view to save this, had moved a square,
the black bishop would have taken the knight’s pawn.

_Remarks._

‡ The moves with this mark, will be found not directly to parry a
menaced blow; but merely, by making a counter attack, to suspend its
execution.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his 1st square. ⸸(i)
    B. King’s bishop takes the pawn and gives check.

                    21.
    W. The king castles.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    22.
    W. Queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen at her own bishop’s 2d. †

                    23.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square. ⸸
    B. Queen’s rook at the square of the queen’s knight. †

                    24.
    W. Queen at her king’s 2d. ⸸
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 4th.

                    25.
    W. Knight at his bishop’s 3d. †(k)
    B. Queen’s bishop at the queen’s knight’s
    2d. ⸸(l)

(i) To save himself and the knight’s pawn.

(k) The pawns cannot advance with safety at present.

(l) This is hardly parrying an attack, it is rather flying from it;
however, he is only driven to the square to which he was gambiting.

                    26.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Knight at his king’s 4th square.

                    27.
    W. Knight at the black queen’s knight’s 4th. †
    B. Queen at the bishop’s 3d. ‡

                    28.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(m)
    B. King’s bishop gives check.(n)

                    29.
    W. The king at his knight’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook at the king’s square.(o)

                    30.
    W. The bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. The knight takes the pawn.

(m) To save the king from check-mate.

(n) The assault of the white knight prevented this player from
executing the scheme that he intended; or otherwise, instead of giving
check with his bishop, he would have taken the white king’s bishop’s
pawn with his knight.

(o) When a player has fewer pawns, and more superior pieces than the
adversary, he should bring as many of the latter into play as he can:
if he adduce, on the whole, but one more piece, and carry on the
combination with skill, the other _must_ give way at last.

                    31.
    W. The rook takes the knight.
    B. The queen takes the rook.

                    32.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The bishop takes the queen.

                    33.
    W. The king takes the bishop.
    B. The rook takes the bishop and gives check.

                    34.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 4th.(p)
    B. Queen’s rook at the king’s square.(q)

                    35.
    W. The king at his knight’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s rook gives check.

                    36.
    W. The king at his rook’s 3d.
    B. The knight’s pawn 2 squares.

(p) Of the four squares which he may go into, if he were not to take
one of the two next his adversary’s side, he would, at the next move,
lose either a pawn or his rook.

(q) The black player has now virtually won: we shall make the rest of
the moves as summary as propriety will allow.

                    37.
    W. The rook at his queen’s bishop’s square.
    B. The knight’s pawn gives check.

                    38.
    W. The king at his knight’s 2d.
    B. The king’s rook gives check.

                    39.
    W. The king at the bishop’s 1st.(r)
    B. The king’s rook gives check at the white
    bishop’s 2d.

                    40.
    W. The king removes.
    B. King’s rook at the white queen’s bishop 2d,
       discovering check from the bishop.

                    41.
    W. The king removes either to his right or left.
    B. The king’s rook takes the rook and gives check.

                    42.
    W. The king removes.
    B. Queen’s rook at the white king’s 2d,
       giving _check-mate_.

(r) If he goes to his rook’s 1st, the black king’s rook checks him at
his first square; and when the white rook takes the black king’s rook,
the black queen’s rook takes the capturer, and repeats check: the king
removes, and is check-mated.

=_Conclusion_=.

In the former edition of this work, the author took occasion to
introduce, with a game of PHILIDOR, some observations on the critical
situations, into which an inexperienced player may get, from attempting
that master’s mode of managing the pawns, on account of the address
and ability which a successful pursuit of it requires. The difficulty
is, should the adversary abandon the direct mode of opposition with
his own pawns, to guard against the facility which he thereby obtains,
of employing a great number of his superior pieces in forcing the
position of your king. This inconvenience is to be prevented, without
relinquishing the defence of the pawns, or failing in their ultimate
promotion, but there is danger, in pursuing any plan intensely, of
acquiring a manner. The judicious player will avail himself of the
masterly instructions which PHILIDOR gives for the evolutions of
the minor pieces; without reposing on his system on all occasions;
adopting or declining it, as he finds it successful or disastrous
with different players; and obstructing, or conniving at its trial on
himself, as it may be in unison with the general mode of the person
who would practise it. The models of CUNNINGHAM and SALVIO, requiring
great stores of resource to prevent the adventurer from suffering by
enterprise, will in practice be equally delicate to follow. The spirit
of these accomplished specimens is what you should endeavour to seize.
In opposition to any project, to adhere invariably to the routine of
moves in the best edited forms is ineligible; for instance, if you were
to imitate exactly the second mover in the first party of PHILIDOR, an
inferior player might beat you by rote. And though the black player,
under the conduct of PHILIDOR, suffering the establishment of two white
pawns in the centre, proceeds on the conception, that it could not be
prevented, without giving his skilful opponent in some shape or other
an equivalent advantage; you will sometimes find it profitable to try
the effect of that equivalent advantage, where the variation forces
the adversary to the resource of his own talents. Thus, while with a
mixture of prudence and spirit, you do not disdain to adopt from edited
forms moves that are suited to the situation; the features of your
play will be impressed with the character of your own powers; and you
will guard against a habit of ingrafting moves in a mechanical series,
as if you wanted that promptness which should conform itself to all
circumstances.

You may play the game of HANNIBAL or FABIUS. If you have naturally a
disposition for enterprise, and are fertile in expedients, you will do
well to cultivate it, as it will prevent an adversary of slower parts
from prosecuting those systematic plans, which he has tried and proved.
If, on the contrary, your abilities are rather solid than splendid, you
must, even in those speculations into which a player of an opposite
turn will sometimes draw you, keep as near as possible to the shore
of certainty, never launching into a new track with wantonness, never
without deliberation. But whether your ingenuity expatiate, or your
judgment, preponderate, your best guide will be Experience. If you have
enlisted both these in your accomplishments, you will not want, though
you will excuse, the officiousness of advice.

The observations on points, respecting which the practice is not
entirely uniform, are postponed to the appendix.

ANALYSIS
                                   OF
                           THE GAME OF CHESS.

BY MR. PHILIDOR.

                           TO WHICH IS ADDED,
                     SEVERAL PARTIES, PLAYED BY THE
                           AUTHOR BLINDFOLD,
                                AGAINST
                           THREE ADVERSARIES.

                           =_A New Edition_=,

                    WITH CORRECTIONS BY THE EDITOR,
           CHIEFLY REGARDING THE PERSPICUITY OF THE LANGUAGE.

                    _Ludimus effigiem belli._ VIDA.

=_Advertisement_=.

It is to be observed, that in the Notes, the reader is addressed as the
player supposed to move the white pieces, and the player of the blacks,
an imaginary antagonist of the reader, is spoken of in the third
person, to avoid equivocation.

It is also to be observed, that when the manœuvre of castling is
performed in the following examples, the king stands on the square
_next but one to his own_, and the rook on the _square adjoining
the king’s original square_;—so that the place for castling on the
king’s and on the queen’s side, is not, as in the preceding games,
uniform:—but the king and rook stand on the same squares on the king’s
side.

ANALYSIS OF _CHESS_.

                       =_Philidor’s own Games_=.

                              FIRST PARTY,

     _With Two Back Games; the First beginning from the Twelfth,
     and the Second from the Thirty-seventh Move, of the Black_.

                    1.

    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. The king’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th square.
    B. The same.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.

                    4.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(a)
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

(a) This pawn, is pushed two steps, for two reasons: the first, to
hinder the adversary’s king’s bishop from attacking your king’s
bishop’s pawn; the second, to bring the strength of your pawns into the
centre of the chess-board.

                    5.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.(b)
    B. The bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.(c)

                    6.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.
    B. The king castles.

                    7.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.(d)
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

(b) When you find your game in the present situation, _viz._ two pawns
in a front line, you must take care not to push either of them, before
your adversary proposes to change one for the other: which you will
then avoid, by pushing forwards the attacked pawn.

(c) If, instead of being withdrawn, this bishop gives check, you are to
cover the check with the bishop; and, in case he takes your bishop, you
must take his bishop with your knight, who will then defend your king’s
pawn.

(d) Before the bishop’s pawn has been pushed two squares, avoid playing
the knight at the bishop’s 3d, when it will answer the purpose to play
him any where else; for the obstruction which the knight gives to the
motion of the pawn, is sometimes inconvenient in its consequences.

                    8.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.(e)
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.

                    9.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s square.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(f)

                    11.
    W. The queen at her 2d square.(g)
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.(h)

(e) The bishop retires, to avoid being attacked by the adversary’s
queen’s pawn, because that would force you to take his pawn with yours,
and separate your pawns.

(f) He plays this pawn to give an opening to the rook; and this cannot
be hindered, whether he or you take.

(g) You should not take the pawn which is offered you, because your
king’s pawn would then lose its file; whereas, leaving yours to be
taken, you supply its place by the pawn of your queen, and sustain it
afterwards with your king’s bishop’s pawn. These two pawns united will
undoubtedly win the game.

(h) He takes the pawn to pursue his design of giving an opening to his
rook.

                    12.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d square.(i)

                    13.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th.(k)
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d square.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s bishop takes the black bishop.(l)
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

(i) He plays this bishop to add to the security of his queen’s pawn,
and to enable him to push afterwards his queen’s bishop’s pawn: you
could, it is true, oblige him to double a pawn in the knight’s file, by
taking his king’s bishop with your queen’s bishop, but this would make
an opening to his king’s rook: besides a doubled pawn, when connected
with others, as his would be, is by no means disadvantageous; however,
the present attitude of the pieces will be the subject of a back game,
making him take your queen’s bishop with that of his king.

(k) Your king’s pawn being as yet in no danger, your knight attacks his
bishop, in order to take him, or have him removed.

(l) It is always dangerous to let the adversary’s king’s bishop command
the diagonal of your king’s bishop’s pawn; and therefore when your
queen’s pawn cannot form a bar to his action, it is necessary to oppose
him with your queen’s bishop, and to exchange him for that piece, if
you cannot procure him for a smaller.

                    15.
    W. The king castles with his rook.(m)
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d square.

                    16.
    W. King’s knight takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the knight.

                    17.
    W. The king’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s bishop’s 2d square.

                    18.
    W. The queen’s rook at its king’s square.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(n)

                    19.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(o)
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.

(m) You castle on that side, in order to sustain and strengthen your
king’s bishop’s pawn, which you will advance two squares as soon as
your king’s pawn is attacked.

(n) He is forced to push this pawn, to hinder you from playing your
king’s bishop’s pawn upon his queen, which would give you two pawns in
a front line upon his field.

(o) This pawn is played to enable you to push your king’s knight’s pawn
two steps.

                    20.
    W. The knight at his king’s 4th square.
    B. The king’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(p)

                    21.
    W. The queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The 1st of the double pawns 1 square.

                    22.
    W. The king’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s 4th square.

                    23.
    W. The knight at his king’s knight’s 3d square.(q)
    B. King’s knight at the white king’s 3d square.(r)

(p) He plays this pawn to hinder your knight entering his game, and
forcing his queen to remove, which would immediately make an opening
for your pawns.

(q) You play this knight to enable yourself to push your king’s
bishop’s pawn next, which will be then supported by three pieces, the
rook, the bishop, and the knight.

(r) He plays this knight, in order to cut off the communication between
your pieces, and break the strength of your pawns; which he would
undoubtedly do, by pushing his king’s knight’s pawn; but you prevent
his design, by sacrificing your rook.

                    24.
    W. Queen’s rook takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the rook.

                    25.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s rook takes the rook’s pawn.

                    26.
    W. The rook at its king’s square.(s)
    B. The queen takes the queen’s knight’s pawn.

                    27.
    W. The queen at her king’s 4th square.
    B. The queen at her king’s 3d square.(t)

                    28.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    29.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen at her 4th square.(u)

(s) You play the rook to support your king’s pawn, which would be left
without adequate support, were you to push your king’s bishop’s pawn.

(t) The queen returns to this square, in order to hinder the
check-mate, now prepared.

(u) The queen offers to be exchanged with the other queen, in order to
break the scheme of a check-mate, by the adverse bishop and queen.

                    30.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The pawn takes the queen.

                    31.
    W. The bishop takes the pawn in his way.
    B. The knight at his 3d square.

                    32.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(x)
    B. Queen’s rook at the white queen’s knight’s 2d square.

                    33.
    W. The bishop at the queen’s 3d square.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d square.

(x) You are to observe, that when your bishop runs upon the white
squares, you must put your pawns upon the black ones; or, if your
bishop runs upon the black, you must have your pawns upon the white; by
which course the bishop prevents the adversary’s pieces from intruding
between your pawns. This rule is hardly ever to be dispensed with,
in case you attack, and have some pawns advanced; but, in case of a
defence, the rule must be reversed, and the pawns set upon the bishop’s
colour.

                    34.
    W. The bishop at the black king’s bishop’s 4th square.(y)
    B. The knight at the white queen’s bishop’s 4th square.

                    35.
    W. The knight at the black king’s rook’s 4th square.
    B. King’s rook gives check.

                    36.
    W. The bishop covers the check.
    B. Knight at the white queen’s 2d square.

                    37.
    W. King’s pawn gives check.
    B. King at his knight’s 3d square.(z) ☜

                    38.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook at his king’s bishop’s square.

                    39.
    W. The knight gives check at the 4th square of his king’s bishop.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d square.

(y) Here is an example of the above note: if your bishop run black,
your adversary’s king might insinuate between your two pawns.

(z) As the king may retire to his bishop’s square, we will make it the
subject of a second back game.

                    40.
    W. The bishop at the black king’s rook 4th square.
    B. Plays any where: the white pushes to queen.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST PARTY,

    _On the Twelfth Move of the Black_.

                    12.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. King’s bishop takes the queen’s bishop.

                    13.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d square.

                    14.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th square.
    B. Queen at her king’s 2d square.

                    15.
    W. The knight takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the knight.

                    16.
    W. The king castles with his rook.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d square.

                    17.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    18.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his 2d square.

                    19.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    20.
    W. The knight at his king’s 2d square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    21.
    W. The queen at her 2d square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his 3d square.

                    22.
    W. The knight at his king’s knight’s 3d square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 4th square.

                    23.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s square.
    B. Queen’s knight at the white king’s 3d square.

                    24.
    W. The rook takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the rook.

                    25.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the queen’s rook’s pawn.

                    26.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen takes the pawn.

                    27.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight at his king’s square.

                    28.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen at the white queen’s 4th square.

                    29.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The pawn takes the queen.

                    30.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight at his queen’s 3d square.

                    31.
    W. The knight at his king’s 4th square.
    B. The knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th square.

                    32.
    W. The rook takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the rook.

                    33.
    W. The knight at the black queen’s 3d square.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square,
       or any move indifferently, the game being unavoidably lost.

                   34.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Rook at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    35.
    W. The bishop gives check.
    B. The king retires, having but one place.

                    36.
    W. The knight gives check.
    B. The king removes.

                    37.
    W. The knight at the black queen’s square, discovering check.
    B. The king removes where he can.

                    38.
    W. King’s pawn becomes a queen, and gives check-mate.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST PARTY,

    _On the Thirty-seventh Move of the Black_.

                    37.
    W. King’s pawn gives check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    38.
    W. The rook at the queen’s rook’s square.
    B. The rook gives check at the white queen’s knight’s square.

                    39.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The knight takes the rook.

                    40.
    W. The king at his rook’s 2d square.
    B. Knight at the white queen’s bishop’s 3d square.

                    41.
    W. Knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th square.
    B. Knight at the white king’s 4th square.

                    42.
    W. The knight takes the pawn.
    B. The rook at his king’s knight’s 4th square.

                    43.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square, and gives check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d square.

                    44.
    W. Bishop gives check at the black king’s 3d square.
    B. The king takes the bishop.

                    45.
    W. King’s pawn becomes a queen, and wins the game.

SECOND PARTY,

_With Three Back Games: the First on the Third, the Second on the
Eighth, and the last on the Twenty-sixth Move of the Black_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(a)
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.(b)

                    4.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

(a) It is absolutely necessary to advance this pawn two squares to
prevent your adversary from bringing his pawns into the centre of the
board; and this he certainly could effect, by pushing his queen’s pawn
two squares against your bishop, which would give him the move and
attack.

(b) Had he pushed his queen’s pawn two squares instead of taking, it
would have materially altered the game, so we will make it the subject
of a back game.

                    5.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.(c)

                    6.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    7.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.(d)

(c) He has two reasons for playing this bishop: the first is, to push
his queen’s pawn, in order to make room for his king’s bishop; the
second, to oppose it to your king’s bishop, and take him from the field
in time, according to the rule prescribed in the first game.

(d) If, instead of getting out his superior pieces, by playing his
knight, he should continue to advance his pawns, he might with ease be
made to lose the game. It must be observed, that one or two pawns, too
far advanced, may be reckoned as lost, except when there is an open
field for other pieces to protect them, or when the same pawns may be
sustained or supplied by others. By a back game it will convincingly
appear, that two pawns in a front line, situated upon the chess-board’s
fourth square, are better than upon the sixth square.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.(e)

                    11.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(f)
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    12.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 4th.

(e) He pushes this pawn two squares to prevent your pawns falling upon
his.—Here observe, two equal bodies of pawns are on the board: you have
four to three on your king’s side, and he has four to three on his
queen’s side; the player that is able first to separate his adversary’s
pawns, on the side where they are most in number, will undoubtedly win
the game.

(f) This move is material, by its seasonable anticipation, because by
pushing his king’s rook’s pawn a square, he would have cut off the
communication between your pawns; your king’s knight’s pawn being then
unable to join that of your bishop, without being exposed to be taken
by his rook’s pawn.

                    14.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight gives check to the king, and attacks the rook.

                    16.
    W. The king at his knight’s 2d square.
    B. The knight takes the rook.

                    17.
    W. The king takes the knight.(g)
    B. The queen at her 2d square.

                    18.
    W. The queen at her king’s knight’s square.(h)
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

(g) Though a rook is commonly more valued than a knight, yet your game
may be better than his: because, notwithstanding this loss, your king
is safe, and you are the better enabled to form your attack on which
ever side your adversary may chuse to castle.

(h) It is essential to play your queen to sustain your king’s knight’s
pawn, least he should sacrifice his bishop for your two pawns, which
he certainly would; because all the strength of your game consisting
in your pawns, the breaking of them would give him the attack, and
probably make you lose the game.

                    19.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d square.(i)
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 3d square.
    B. The king castles on his queen’s side.(k)

                    21.
    W. The king’s bishop gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d square.

                    22.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s bishop’s 2d square.(l)
    B. Queen’s rook at its own square.

                    23.
    W. King’s bishop at the black queen’s knight’s 4th square.
    B. The queen at her own square.(m)

(i) In order to engage your adversary to push his queen’s bishop’s
pawn, which would give you the victory very soon, by making an opening
for your knights.

(k) He castles on that side to avoid the strength of your pawns upon
his king, which present a menacing front, and are already farther
advanced than those on the side of your queen.

(l) Had you given him check with this knight, you would have entangled
your bishop, and lost many moves: it is therefore better to go back.

(m) He brings back his queen to her home, with a design to place her
next at her king’s bishop’s square, to increase the support of his
queen’s bishop’s pawn.

                    24.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s square.

                    25.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn takes the queen’s bishop’s pawn.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    26.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 2d square.(n)
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(o)

                    27.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(p)

                    28.
    W. The bishop gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d square.

(n) With a view to pursue your attack on his pawn.

(o) In order to gain a move, and to hinder your king’s knight from
placing himself at your queen’s knight’s third square; but as the
twenty-sixth move might have been different, it will be the subject of
a back game.

(p) Let him now play as he will, his situation is irretrievable;
because your knights have got a free passage into his game.

                    29.
    W. The bishop takes the knight and checks.
    B. The king takes the bishop.

                    30.
    W. King’s knight gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d square.(q)

                    31.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The bishop at his king’s knight’s square.

                    32.
    W. The pawn gives check.
    B. The king at his own square.

                    33.
    W. King’s knight at the black queen’s knight’s 4th square.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d square.

                    34.
    W. The queen at her 4th square.(r)
    B. Lost every where.

(q) If his king takes your queen’s bishop, you have his queen by a
discovered check; and if he removes his king elsewhere, he loses his
queen’s bishop.

(r) The queen next takes the adversary’s queen’s pawn, exposes every
one of his pieces, and wins the game.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE SECOND PARTY,

    _On the Third Move of the Black_.

                    3.
    W. The queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    4.
    W. King’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    5.
    W. The bishop gives check.
    B. Queen’s bishop covers the check.

                    6.
    W. King’s bishop takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s knight takes the bishop.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The knight takes the pawn.

                    8.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d square.
    B. The same.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.
    B. The king castles.

                    10.
    W. Bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.

                    11.
    W. The king castles.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    12.
    W. King’s knight takes the queen.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s 4th square.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    14.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    15.
    W. King’s rook at its 3d square.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d square.

                    16.
    W. The bishop takes the knight.
    B. The rook takes the bishop.

                    17.
    W. King’s rook at its queen’s 3d square.
    B. Queen’s rook at its king’s square.

                    18.
    W. King’s knight takes the pawn.
    B. The knight at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th square.

                    19.
    W. King’s rook at its king’s 3d square.
    B. Knight takes the rook’s pawn, and gives check.

                    20.
    W. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.
    B. The knight retires.

                     21.
    W. The knight at once checks the king, and attacks the rook, &c. &c.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE SECOND PARTY,

    _On the Eighth Move of the Black_.

                    8.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    W. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    11.
    W. King’s bishop at his 3d square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 4th.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    15.
    W. King’s knight takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d square.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d square.
    B. The rook at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    17.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his 3d square.

                    18.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. King’s bishop at the white queen’s knight’s 4th.

                    19.
    W. The king castles, and will undoubtedly win the game.

THIRD BACK GAME,

TO THE SECOND PARTY,

    _On the Twenty-sixth Move of the Black_.

                    26.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    27.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s knight’s 3d square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    28.
    W. The queen’s bishop gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    29.
    W. King’s knight gives check at the black queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    30.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s square.

                    31.
    W. The rook at the queen’s knight’s square.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d square.

                    32.
    W. Queen’s bishop gives check at the black queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    33.
    W. The queen gives check at the black queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king any where, loses the game.

THIRD PARTY,

THE BLACK PLAYER MOVING FIRST;

                 _With Three Back Games_.

        N. B. The tactics of this game are not quite regular;
            but the first moves of the white are very well
            calculated, especially when some odds are granted.

                    1.
    B. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The same.

                    2.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(a)

                    4.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

(a) It is always advantageous to change your king’s bishop’s pawn for
the adversary’s king’s pawn, because, by that means, your king’s and
queen’s pawns may place themselves in the centre of the chess-board;
besides, in castling on the right wing, your rook is at liberty to act,
at the beginning of the game, as will be shewn by a back game on the
same play.

                    5.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.(b)
    W. The bishop takes the pawn.

                    6.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the white king’s knight’s 4th square.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.

                    7.

    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d square.(c)
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    B. The bishop retires.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d square.(d)

(b) If your adversary should refuse taking your bishop’s pawn, you
are still to leave it exposed, and not move it forward until he has
castled; when the pawns of your right wing, must form an attack upon
the pawns which cover his king, as is explained in a back game on that
move. You are, in general, to decline shewing hastily whether you have
determined to push the pawns on your right or left wing before your
adversary’s king has castled, because he will otherways retire on the
side where your pawns are less advanced, and consequently less able to
hurt him.

(c) Should he take your knight with his bishop, you must take the
bishop with your pawn, in order to concentre your pawns.

(d) This is the best square your king’s bishop can chuse, except the
fourth of your queen’s bishop: in that place he may be of use in
forming your attack upon the adverse king’s rook’s pawn, in case he
castles on his left side.

                    9.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d square.
    W. The same.

                    10.
    B. The king castles with his rook.(e)
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d square.

                    11.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 4th.(f)
    W. The queen at her king’s 3d square.

(e) If he had castled on his queen’s side, it would then have been your
game to castle on your king’s side, in order to assail him with all the
pawns on your left. It should be observed, that as it is dangerous to
attack the adversary too soon, you should forbear engaging him closely,
until your pawns are previously sustained by one another, and the
supporting pawns by your superior pieces. The unsuccessful result of a
premature assault is exhibited in a back game.

(f) He plays the knight to make room for his king’s bishop’s pawn, with
a design next to advance it two squares, to endeavour to break your
cordon of pawns.

                    12.
    B. King’s knight takes the bishop.(g)
    W. The queen takes the knight.

                    13.
    B. Queen’s bishop takes the knight.(h)
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.

                    14.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The queen at her king’s knight’s 3d.

                    15.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.

(g) If he had pushed his king’s bishop’s pawn two squares, instead of
taking your bishop, you should in the first place have attacked his
queen with your queen’s bishop, and then have pushed your king’s rook’s
pawn upon his bishop, to force him to take your knight; then his bishop
must be taken with your pawn, in order the better to support your
king’s pawn, and replace it if lost.

(h) If he did not take this knight, the bishop would remain imprisoned
by your pawns; or his player would lose three moves, which would ruin
his situation.

                    16.
    B. King’s rook at his king’s bishop’s 3d.(i)
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.(k)

                    17.
    B. Queen’s rook at his king’s bishop’s square.
    W. The king’s castles with his queen’s rook.

                    18.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.(l)

(i) With the design either to attack and remove your queen, or to
double it, if necessary, with the other rook.

(k) To give room to your queen, in case your adversary attacks her with
his king’s rook.

(l) The refined motives which produced this move make it difficult
to comprehend and explain. Preparatory to analysing it, let it be
observed, that when you have a range of pawns extending diagonally, the
pawn which is the leader must take his successive stations cautiously,
not protruding without necessity more than a square before the second
in the range, so as to want support. One project of the adversary, was
to force you to commit your pawns. Seeing your king’s pawn out of the
oblique line formed by your other pawns, and unprepared for any useful
co-operation; he proposed, by pushing his queen’s bishop’s pawn, either
to induce your queen’s pawn to advance a square, that its progress
might be blocked by his pawn, while your king’s pawn was left behind,
or to cause your king’s pawn to move to its support, one effect of
which would be, that your own pawn would shield his king’s rook’s pawn
from the menacing action of your bishop. Both these designs you defeat
by impelling the king’s pawn against his rook, and it is eligible to
sacrifice it, rather than accomplish his views. Should he take your
king’s pawn, a free passage is obtained for the pawn of your queen,
which you are to advance immediately, and sustain in case of need,
with your others, in order to move it to queen, or engage it in some
exertion that may conduce to the game. It is true that his queen’s
pawn, passing, at the capture, into the king’s file, appears to have
the same advantage of having no opposition from your pawns to make a
queen; however there is a difference, because his pawn being separated,
and incapable of support from the other pawns, will be in danger, all
along its passage, of seizure by your pieces. This move, as I observed
before, is difficult to comprehend in all its bearings, and it requires
a proficiency in play, to see the propriety of it.

                    19.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    20.
    B. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    W. The knight at his king’s 4th.(m)

(m) It was expedient to play this knight, to stop his king’s pawn: it
concerned you the more to stop this pawn, because in its present state,
it blocks the passage of its own bishop, and even of its knight.

                    21.
    B. King’s rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d square.
    W. The queen at her king’s knight’s 2d.

                    22.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 2d.(n)
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    23.
    B. The queen gives check.
    W. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    24.
    B. The rook takes the bishop.(o)
    W. The rook takes the rook.

(n) He plays his queen, in order afterwards to give check, but if,
instead of playing her, he had pushed his king’s rook’s pawn, to hinder
the attack of your knight, you must have pushed your queen’s pawn one
square, which would have insured you the game.

(o) He takes the bishop to save his king’s rook’s pawn; besides, the
bishop proves more incommodious to him than all your other pieces, and
by this play he keeps your queen’s rook from moving, after capturing
yours, as it would discover check to the king.

                    25.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. The queen at her king’s 4th.(p)

                    26.
    B. The queen takes the queen.
    W. The knight takes the queen.

                    27.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    28.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s rook at his king’s knight’s 3d.

                    29.
    B. The knight at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s 3d.

                    30.
    B. The knight takes the knight.
    W. The pawn takes the knight.

(p) Having the advantage of a rook against a bishop, towards the end of
a party, you will gain by changing the queen. His queen is troublesome
to you, and might render him effective service could he keep her, but
as you have placed yours, he is forced to exchange, to avoid check-mate.

                    31.
    B. The rook at his king’s bishop’s 3d.
    W. King’s rook at his queen’s square.(q)

                    32.
    B. The rook takes the pawn.
    W. The king’s rook at the adverse queen’s 2d—wins the game.

(q) You must seize the open files, to bring the rooks into play,
especially at the latter end of the game.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE THIRD PARTY,

    _On the Third Move of the Black_.

                    3.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    B. Queen’s pawn takes the pawn.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    5.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th square.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    6.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    7.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.

                    9.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.
    W. The king castles.

                    11.
    B. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 4th square.
    W. The bishop gives check.

                    12.
    B. The bishop covers the check.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    13.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    14.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    15.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn, passing by.[27]
    W. Rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

[27] _Takes the pawn, passing by._ To some readers this will be an
enigma, and to them is offered the solution. It was an institute of
MR. PHILIDOR, that when a pawn has penetrated to the fifth square, of
his own file, which is the fourth on the adversary’s side; adverse
pawns, on adjoining files, not having moved, forfeit the privilege of
going two squares; and if one of them should move two squares, the
advanced pawn may take him, placing himself as if the captured pawn had
moved but one square. This player, celebrated for his skill, was very
anxious to have this rule, and the mode of enforcing it, received into
general practice; but notwithstanding the dazzle of his example, there
seems, in its principle, an unnecessary deviation from system, into
caprice and irregularity. In the appendix, its claims to be a permanent
institute of Chess, are analysed.

                    16.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d square.

                    17.
    B. The bishop at his king’s 2d.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    18.
    B. King’s knight at his own square.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.

                    19.
    B. King’s rook at its 2d square.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    20.
    B. Queen at her knight’s 2d square.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    21.
    B. King’s bishop at his 3d square.
    W. King’s rook takes the pawn.

                    22.
    B. The king castles.
    W. King’s rook takes the adverse queen’s knight.

                    23.
    B. The pawn takes the rook.
    W. Queen’s rook takes the pawn.

                    24.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The rook gives check.

                    25.
    B. The king retires.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    26.
    B. The queen at her knight’s 4th.
    W. The queen’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    27.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. The queen’s knight at his bishop’s 4th.

                    28.
    B. The queen takes the knight, not knowing an effective
       resource for her king.
    W. The bishop gives check.

                    29.
    B. The king retires.
    W. The knight gives check-mate.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE THIRD PARTY.

    _On the Fifth Move of the Black._

                    5.
    B. The king castles.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    6.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    7.
    B. Queen’s pawn takes the pawn.
    W. Queen’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    8.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    9.
    B. The queen at her 3d square.
    W. The king’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s square.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    11.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The queen at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th.

                    12.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    13.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The bishop takes the king’s bishop’s pawn.

                    14.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the king’s rook’s pawn.

                    15.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. The queen at her king’s rook’s 4th square—commands
       the event of the game.

THIRD BACK GAME,

TO THE THIRD PARTY,

    _On the Tenth Move of the Black_.

                    10.
    B. The king castles with the queen’s rook.
    W. The king castles with his rook.

                    11.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d square.

                    12.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d square.

                    13.
    B. Queen’s rook at his king’s knight’s square.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    14.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    15.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.

                    16.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d square.

                    17.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    18.
    B. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    19.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s rook at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    20.
    B. King’s rook at his 4th square.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    21.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    22.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s square.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    23.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.
    W. The king’s rook takes the pawn.

                    24.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s rook at his queen’s knight’s 4th.

                    25.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s bishop takes the queen’s rook’s pawn.

                    26.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.
    W. The queen takes the pawn and gives check.

                    27.
    B. The king retires.
    W. The queen gives check.

                    28.
    B. The knight covers the check.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    29.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d square.
    W. The queen takes the queen’s pawn and gives check.

                    30.
    B. The king retires.

    W. The queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square—has so evidently the game
       by various modes, that it is unnecessary to proceed.

FOURTH PARTY,

WITH TWO BACK GAMES,

_The First on the Fifth, and the other on the Sixth Move_.

                    1.
    B. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The same.

                    2.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(a)
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.

                    3.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.

                    4.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(b)
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

(a) Ill play of the adversary in these circumstances; because by
pushing your queen’s pawn two squares, you regain the advantage of the
move.

(b) If, instead of moving the pawn here, he had moved the king’s knight
to the king’s second square, you should have pushed your king’s pawn an
additional square; sustaining it afterwards with your king’s bishop’s
pawn.

                    5.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(c)
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.(d)

                    6.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(e)
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 2d.

(c) If, instead of pushing this pawn, he had moved his queen’s bishop
to the king’s third, you must have moved your king’s bishop to the
queen’s third, and then the situation of the game would have been
exactly as it is at the sixth move of the Second Party: but if he had
attacked your queen with his queen’s bishop’s pawn, he would have
played very ill, because his queen’s pawn would have been left behind.
_Vide note_ (l) pa. 161.

(d) It is policy to decline changing your king’s pawn for your
adversary’s king’s bishop’s pawn, or your queen’s pawn for his queen’s
bishop’s pawn; on account of the paramount utility of the royal pawns;
occupying the centre, they preclude the adversary from the most
advantageous posts.

(e) If, instead of pushing his queen’s pawn, he had taken your king’s,
you should have taken his queen; his pawn would have been in your
power afterwards; and by preventing him from castling, you would have
kept the attack in your hands; but as he could seat his queen at her
bishop’s second square, that alternative is traced through a second
back game.

                    7.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    8.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 4th.

                    9.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    B. The queen at her knight’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    11.
    B. King’s bishop takes the knight.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.(f)

                    12.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    13.
    B. The king castles with his rook.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

(f) When you have two bodies of pawns, with an interval between, and
an opportunity of transferring a pawn from one body to another, by
exchange; the pawn should pass to the larger division, to concentre
them.

                    14.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 2d square.(g)
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    15.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The same.(h)

                    16.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.

                    17.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The king castles with his queen’s rook.(i)

(g) Having no object for the power of his queen as she stood, he
removes her to make room for his pawns, with an intent to push them
upon you.

(h) The pushing of this pawn, it is confessed, obstructs the game,
by lessening the facility of exchanging; but the power to make an
opening with your king’s rook’s pawn, is still reserved, and it will
be expedient to use it, as soon as your pieces are ready to form and
sustain the attack.

(i) You castle on your queen’s side to acquire more freedom in
attacking on your right. If, instead of castling, you had taken
the pawn exposed, the result would have united in the centre the
adversary’s pawns, and impeded the operation of your pieces.

                    18.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.
    W. The bishop takes the pawn.

                    19.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(k)

                    20.
    B. The knight takes the bishop.
    W. The rook takes the knight.

                    21.
    B. The bishop at his king’s bishop’s 2d.(l)
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    22.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(m)
    W. Queen’s rook at his king’s rook’s 3d square.

                    23.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.

(k) Had you taken the knight with your queen’s bishop, you had fallen
into the error, above deprecated, of uniting in the centre the
adversary’s pawns.

(l) He plays this bishop to fill the place of his king’s knight’s pawn,
in case it be taken.

(m) He plays this pawn to attack the knight that covers your king,
having no move that is obviously better; for by taking your pawn he
would be equally subject to lose the game.

                    24.
    B. The bishop at his king’s square.(n)
    W. King’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    25.
    B. The bishop takes the pawn.
    W. The rook takes the rook’s pawn.

                    26.
    B. The bishop takes the rook.
    W. The king’s rook takes the bishop.

                    27.
    B. The king takes the rook.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s rook’s 4th square.

                    28.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.
    W. The queen gives check-mate.(o)

(n) If he takes the pawn with his bishop, he equally loses the game.

(o) It would appear, that if you can succeed in planting round the
retreat of the adverse king two or three pawns, making an approach
for your powerful pieces, by an exchange, the utmost address of the
adversary, after permitting this, cannot accomplish the king’s safety.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE FOURTH PARTY,

    _On the Fifth Move of the Black_.

                    5.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s bishop gives check.

                    6.
    B. The bishop covers the check.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    7.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.
    W. The queen at her 3d square.

                    8.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    9.
    B. Queen’s knight at the white queen’s knight’s 4th.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    10.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    11.
    B. King’s bishop at his 3d square.
    W. Queen’s knight at the black queen’s 4th.

                    12.
    B. The queen’s knight takes the knight.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the knight.

                    13.
    B. The knight at his king’s 2d square.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.

                    14.
    B. The king castles with his rook.
    W. The queen at her 3d square.

                    15.
    B. King’s rook at his king’s square.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d square.

                    16.
    B. The knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    17.
    B. The knight at the white queen’s 4th.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d square.

                    18.
    B. The knight takes the knight.
    W. The king takes the knight.

                    19.
    B. The bishop takes the queen’s knight’s pawn.
    W. The queen’s rook attacks the bishop.

                    20.
    B. The bishop retires to his 3d square.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    21.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The same.

                    22.
    B. The bishop at his king’s knight 2d square.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    23.
    B. King’s rook at his king’s 2d square.
    W. King’s rook at his 4th square.

                    24.
    B. Queen’s rook at his king’s square.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s 2d square.

                    25.
    B. King’s rook at the white king’s 4th.
    W. The rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    26.
    B. The rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    W. Queen’s rook at his king’s rook’s square.

                    27.
    B. The queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    28.
    B. The rook gives check.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d square.

                    29.
    B. The rook takes the queen.
    W. The king’s rook gives check.

                    30.
    B. The bishop takes the rook.
    W. The rook takes the bishop and gives _check-mate_.

VARIATION BY THE EDITOR.

To the State previous to the 28th Move, return the Pieces.

    The black king to his knight’s square.
    The black bishop to the same knight’s 2d square.
    The black rook to the white king’s 4th.
    The white queen to her own 3d.
    The white rooks one to the 1st, and one to the 4th square
        of their king’s rook.

                    28.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.(a)
    W. The queen takes the bishop.

(a) When the king is impeded by his own pieces, it is termed a
_smothered-mate_. As the mate in the back game was partly smothered,
the object of this variation is to prevent a repetition of that, by
timely removes and exchanges.

                    29.
    B. The king’s rook gives check.
    W. The queen takes the rook.

                    30.
    B. The rook takes the queen.
    W. The king takes the rook.

                    31.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.
    W. King’s rook at the black king’s rook’s square, giving check.

                    32.
    B. The king at his 2d square.
    W. Queen’s rook at his king’s square.

                    33.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 4th.(b)
    W. The king at his bishop’s 3d, discovering check.

                    34.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.
    W. King’s rook at the black king’s square.

                    35.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    W. Queen’s rook at the black king’s 2d, giving check.

(b) She opens for her king the only passage by which he can escape.

                    36.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    W. The king’s rook gives check.

                    37.
    B. The king at his queen’s rook’s 4th.
    W. The rook takes the pawn, and checks.

                    38.
    B. The king at his queen’s rook’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s rook at his king’s 3d.

                    39.
    B. Were the black queen to resign herself for the rook, the present
       impending check-mate would be averted in one obvious way; but
       that would leave the whites an effective preponderance; she
       therefore makes it a _draw game_, by perpetual check.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE FOURTH PARTY,

    _On the Sixth Move of the Black_.

                    6.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 2d square.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    7.
    B. The queen’s pawn takes the pawn.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    8.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The queen at the black queen’s 4th.

                    9.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    10.
    B. Queen’s knight at the white queen’s knight’s 4th.
    W. The queen at her own square.

                    11.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    12.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d square.
    W. The king castles.

                    13.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the black king’s knight’s 4th.

                    14.
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the black king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    15.
    B. King’s knight at his own square.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the bishop.

                    16.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.
    W. King’s knight at the black king’s knight’s 4th.

                    17.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    18.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. The queen at the black queen’s 4th.

                    19.
    B. Queen’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    W. Queen at the black queen’s 3d.

                    20.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.
    W. The king’s pawn 1 square.

                     21.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his 3d square.
    W. Queen’s rook at his queen’s square.

                    22.
    B. King’s knight at the white king’s knight’s 4th.
    W. The queen gives check at the black queen’s 2d.

                    23.
    B. The bishop takes the queen.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop and gives check.

                    24.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.
    W. The knight gives check-mate at the adverse king’s 3d.

=_Philidor’s Gambits_=.

FIRST GAMBIT,

WITH SEVEN BACK GAMES;

     _Two on the Fourth Move, One on the Fifth, One on the Sixth,
            Two on the Seventh, the last on the Eighth_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.(a)
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.(b)

(a): Instead of that move, you might have pushed your king’s rook’s
pawn two squares. This will be the subject of a back game.

(b) Instead of playing this bishop, he might have moved his king’s
knight’s pawn one square. A subject for another back game.

                    5.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.(c)
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(d) ☜

                    6.
    W. The queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.(e) ☜

(c) By playing this pawn you force him to defend his king’s knight’s
pawn with that of his rook; by drawing out his rook’s pawn, you keep
his king’s knight confined; nor can he then sally without exposing his
pawns to be taken.

(d) He had two other ways of playing; he might push his king’s bishop’s
pawn a square, in which case you sacrifice your knight, in order
afterwards to give check with your queen, which insures you the game;
or, he might push his king’s knight’s pawn a square upon your knight.
The latter is made the subject of a third back game.

(e) If, instead, he had advanced his queen’s bishop’s pawn a square,
you must have played that of your king, in order afterwards to take his
queen’s pawn in passing, in case he was to push it two moves, with a
design to obstruct your king’s bishop. Another subject for a back game.

    N. B. You are to observe, that in the attack of Gambits, the king’s
          bishop is the best superior piece, and the king’s pawn the
          best pawn.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square. ☜
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(f) ☜

                    8.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.(g) ☜

                    9.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(h)
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.

(f) If, instead of moving this pawn, he had played his queen’s bishop
either to his king’s third square, or to your king’s knight’s fourth
square, he might have been made to lose two different ways. Both
experiments are traced to their consequences, in two back games,
beginning at this seventh move.

(g) He may now without danger play his bishop on this square, as your
queen can no more double with your king’s bishop by attacking two of
his pawns; but if, instead of moving this bishop so, he had moved him
to his king’s third square, he would have lost the game. The result of
such play is seen in the last back game.

(h) It is very material in the attack of Gambits, not to spare your
pawns on the king’s side, and even to sacrifice them all, if it be
requisite, though merely for the sake of the adversary’s king’s pawn,
because that pawn hinders your queen’s bishop from coming into play,
and co-operating with the pieces that form your attack.

                    10.
    W. The King’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    11.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The bishop takes the rook.

                    12.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the king’s knight’s pawn.
    B. The king’s bishop at his 3d square.(i)

                    13.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.

                    14.
    W. The queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The same.

                    15.
    W. The king castles.
    B. The same.

                    16.
    W. The rook at his king’s knight’s square.
    B. The queen at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

(i) If, instead of exposing this bishop, he had taken yours with his
queen, or had taken your knight with his queen’s bishop, he would have
lost the game.

                    17.
    W. The queen at her king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    18.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    19.
    W. The rook takes the queen.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    20.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the knight.
    B. The queen’s bishop takes the knight.

                    21.
    W. The queen’s knight takes the bishop.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    22.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The rook at his king’s bishop’s square.

                    23.
    W. The rook takes the pawn.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    24.
    W. The king at his queen’s 2d.(k)
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

(k) If you had pushed your queen’s bishop’s pawn, you would have lost
the game; because your adversary by pushing his queen’s bishop’s pawn,
would have forced you to remove your queen’s pawn, to take it, and have
afterwards attacked at once your rook and your bishop with his knight.

                    25.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    26.
    W. The bishop takes the rook.(l)

(l) From the manner in which the two parties are balanced, as to
position, and the number of pieces, it is evident that it is become a
draw game, unless some very great error is committed. This game shews,
that a Gambit equally well attacked and defended, will not be decisive
on either side; it is true that he who gives the pawn has the pleasure
of uniformly attacking, and a prospect of winning, which would be
realized, if he on the defensive did not maintain the most undeviating
good play for the first ten or twelve moves.

STRICTURE BY THE EDITOR.

At the 17th move, there is an oversight in each player, one giving, and
one overlooking a material advantage. Though one white knight, at the
first view, seems protected by the other, the king’s knight is exposed
to the bishop, on account of the ambuscaded action of the queen upon
the king. Were the bishop to take, as he should, a train of involved
movements might arise. The plain course, suggested by the position,
would be best for the white player, though it leave the rival party the
majority of a knight.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST GAMBIT,

    _On the Fourth Move of the White_.

                    4.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. The king’s knight at the adversary’s king’s 4th.
    B. The king’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    6.
    W. The king’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king’s rook at its 2d square.

                    7.
    W. The queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    W. The queen’s knight at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d square.

                    9.
    W. The queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    10.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. The king’s pawn 1 square

                    11.
    W. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    12.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. The queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    13.
    W. The queen at her king’s 3d square.
    B. The king’s bishop at his rook’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. The king’s knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. The queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the knight.

                    16.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    17.
    W. The king’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king’s knight takes the king’s pawn.

                    18.
    W. The knight or the bishop takes the knight.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST GAMBIT,

    _On the Fourth Move of the Black_.

                    4.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. King’s knight at the adversary’s king’s 4th.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    6.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 3d.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    10.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    11.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. King’s knight at his own square.

                    12.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s bishop at his rook 3d.

                    13.
    W. King’s bishop at his own square, attacking the queen.
    B. The queen takes the rook.

                    14.
    W. The king’s bishop gives check, and the queen is lost.

THIRD BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST GAMBIT,

    _On the Fifth Move of the Black_.

                    5.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    6.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the gambit pawn.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    10.
    W. The rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. King’s knight at his own square.

                    11.
    W. The queen at her knight’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The queen at her queen’s bishop’s square.

                    13.
    W. The king castles with his rook.
    B. Loses the game.

On a review of the board where the gambit ceased, the white pieces
appear very judiciously placed.

FOURTH BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST GAMBIT,

    _On the Sixth Move of the Black_.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    7.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    8.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his rook’s 3d.

                    11.
    W. The queen’s knight at his king’s 4th square.
    B. The queen at her knight’s 3d square, or any where.[28]

                    12.
    W. The knight gives check at the adverse queen’s 3d square.

[28] PHILIDOR surrenders the position of the blacks as desperate; but
it would appear, that if the queen wait to move to more advantage, the
king’s bishop resuming his square; after the exchange of the bishop for
the knight, if the white knight chuse to check, they would be fortified
at every point.

FIFTH BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST GAMBIT,

    _On the Seventh Move of the Black_.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    8.
    W. The queen at her knight’s 3d square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s rook’s 4th.

                    9.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    10.
    W. The rook takes the bishop.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    11.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn, giving check to the king
       and rook; wins the latter powerful piece, and consequently
       the game.

SIXTH BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST GAMBIT.

    _On the Seventh Move of the Black_.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d square.

                    8.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

                    9.
    W. The queen at her knight’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s square, to defend the 2 pawns.

                    10.
    W. The rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    11.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The bishop takes the rook.

                    12.
    W. The king’s knight takes the pawn.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    13.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the pawn.
    B. The queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    15.
    W. The king castles.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    16.
    W. The rook at his king’s rook’s square.
    B. The king’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    17.
    W. The rook takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the rook.

                    18.
    W. The queen takes the king’s pawn and gives check.
    B. The king retires where he pleases, the game is lost.

VARIATION on the 16th Move.

Return the black king’s knight to his square, the black queen to her
bishop’s first, the black bishop to his rook’s square, the black
pawn to his king’s third, the white queen to her knight’s third, the
white rook to its king’s rook’s square—and the resources of the black
player will be found not exhausted. AS SCIPIO saved ROME by attacking
CARTHAGE; so a counter stroke in Chess, is often the best defence.

Instead of regarding the assault of the white rook on the bishop, which
is to draw the black queen, by an exchange, from the square where she
supports the king’s pawn; at the countermove, let the black player
assail the white queen with his rook’s pawn; when he has obliged her
to quit a square from which she has an aspect on his king’s pawn, he
may protect his bishop, by moving his knight, and the party will not be
circumvented, as a necessary consequence of the preceding moves. The
white queen may not retire, but persevere in taking the king’s pawn,
though defeated in her design of removing the rival queen; the train of
changes to which this will lead, will leave the white party a majority
of two pawns, added to the difference between a knight and a bishop; as
one of the pawns will stand alone, and the black pieces will be well
disposed for manœuvring, this superiority cannot be considered decisive.

SEVENTH BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST GAMBIT,

    _On the Eighth Move of the Black_.

                    8.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    9.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

                    10.
    W. The king’s pawn 1 move.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    11.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    12.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The same.

                    13.
    W. The knight’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    14.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The king castles.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    17.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s knight at his 3d square.

                    18.
    W. The bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    19.
    W. The bishop at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 2d.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king’s bishop at his own square.

                    21.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    22.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    23.
    W. The knight gives check.
    B. The king retires.

                    24.
    W. Queen’s rook at its knight’s own square.
    B. The queen’s knight takes the pawn.

                    25.
    W. The knight takes the queen’s knight’s pawn.
    B. The knight takes the knight.

                    26.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his queen’s rook’s square.

                    27.
    W. The rook takes the knight.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 1st square.

                    28.
    W. The king’s rook at its 2d square.
    B. The queen’s rook at its queen’s 2d square.

                    29.
    W. The king’s rook at its queen’s knight’s 2d square.
    B. The king’s rook at its 2d square.

                    30.
    W. The queen takes the adverse queen’s bishop’s pawn,
       and wins the game.

The science of PHILIDOR has kept the balance critically suspended to
the last.

SECOND GAMBIT,

WITH FIVE BACK GAMES:

_The First on the Third Move, the Second and Third on the Fourth, the
Fourth on the Ninth, and the Fifth on the Eleventh Move of the Black_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    3.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The queen gives check.(a) ☜

                    4.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.(b) ☜

(a) A better way of playing at this move, would be to advance your
king’s bishop’s pawn two squares; as you will see by a back game.

(b) There are two other ways of playing in this place; the one, playing
the king’s bishop to the queen’s bishop’s fourth square; the other,
pushing the pawn of the queen a square; which will make the subject of
two back games.

                    5.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her king’s rook’s 4th.(c)

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(d ☜)
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

(c) He might have removed his queen to one of two other squares, but
this is the best; for had he made her retire to your king’s knight’s
fourth, you might have taken his king’s bishop’s pawn, by first
attacking her, and then giving check, and perhaps afterwards have
forced his queen; and if he had carried her to his king’s rook’s third
square, you could have attacked his king’s bishop’s pawn with your
king’s knight, which would entirely have decided the game in your
favour.

(d) It is essential in the gambits to play this pawn, that you may
afterwards be able to place your queen at her knight’s third square,
by so doing you strengthen your position and perplex your adversary,
especially if he has played his queen’s bishop, without attacking one
of your pieces. See, respecting this, the fifth and sixth back games of
the first gambit.

                    8.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(e) ☜

                    9.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    10.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    11.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the queen.(f) ☜

                    12.
    W. The king takes the queen.(g)
    B. The pawn gives check.

(e) If, instead, he take your king’s knight, with his bishop; a third
back game will shew you how to act.

(f) If, instead of taking your queen, he had given check, a fourth back
game will shew you the course to make him lose the game.

(g) I have given it as a general rule, always to unite your pawns,
and bring them into the centre. Here is, however, an exception for
two reasons; first, if you take with your king you gain a pawn, your
adversary not being able to prevent it; secondly, the queens having
been exchanged, your king has nothing to fear, and by bringing him into
play, he may be as useful as any other piece.

                    13.
    W. The king takes the other pawn.
    B. The king’s bishop gives check at his rook’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.(h)
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    15.
    W. The rook takes the bishop.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    16.
    W. The knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The king at his own 2d.

                    17.
    W. King’s rook at its king’s bishop’s square.(i)
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(k)

(h) Your king would not be safe on that square, if your adversary had
a bishop running white to drive him from the post; but, as it is, your
king sustains all your pawns.

(i) You might have played this rook to your king’s square; but in this
case your queen’s rook would have been rendered almost useless; it is
better therefore to retard your attack, and get all your pieces into
action.

(k) He prepares to push his queen’s pawn a square, to break your
centre; but you must prevent it, by putting him under the necessity of
defending himself.

                    18.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.(l)

                    19.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    20.
    W. The king’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    21.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s 4th.

                    22.
    W. The knight at his king’s 4th.(m)
    B. Queen’s knight at his own 3d.

                    23.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook at its queen’s square.(n)

(l) He endeavours to attack you on your left, and make an opening for
his rooks.

(m) You would have played wrong had you taken his knight with your
bishop, because by taking your bishop with his pawn, that pawn would
obstruct the passage of your knight; it was therefore necessary to play
this knight first, in order to have no useless piece.

(n) If he had taken your knight, you must have taken his knight with
the pawn, and afterwards attacked his king’s bishop’s pawn, by playing
your queen’s rook to the adverse king’s second square.

                    24.
    W. The king’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s rook at its queen’s 3d.(o)

                    25.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn and gives check from the rook.
    B. The king takes the pawn.

                    26.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.

                    27.
    W. The knight takes the rook’s pawn and gives check.
    B. The king at his rook’s 2d.

                    28.
    W. The king’s rook gives check.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

(o) If, instead of playing the rook, he had taken your pawn, you would
have won the game in a few moves, because he would have lost his
queen’s bishop’s pawn; so, if he had taken your knight with his own,
you would have taken his pawn with yours, giving check by discovery.

                    29.
    W. The king’s rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d square.
    B. The queen’s rook at his queen’s square.(p)

                    30.
    W. The bishop takes the adverse queen’s knight, and wins the game.

(p) If he had played his king instead of his queen’s rook, you might
have given check with your queen’s rook, and taken that of his king.
It must be observed here, that what has decided the game in favour of
the white, is, that the king, having been in a situation, to enter
the field with safety, which rarely happens, has been as instrumental
to victory, as the best of his pieces. CHARLES XII. of Sweden was
observed, very characteristically, to move the king more than any other
piece; but this conduct is seldom to be imitated, on account of the
ruin which involves the whole community of pieces, if the king meet
with a disaster.

VARIATION.

At the 28th move, let the bishop check, instead of the rook; and
the check-mate will be effected, almost at the instant, without
circumevolution, or difficulty.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE SECOND GAMBIT,

    _On the Third Move of the Black_.

                    3.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.(a)
    B. The queen gives check.

                    5.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.(b)

                    6.
    W. The bishop takes the knight.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn and gives check.(c)

(a) I make the white pawn take that pawn, to shew that it must cause
the loss of the game; the best move in this puzzling situation, would
have been to play your queen to your king’s second square.

(b) He exposes your king’s bishop to be taken by his queen.

(c) So situated he cannot chuse but win.

                    7.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s rook takes the bishop and wins the game.

PHILIDOR does not seem to think this worth pursuing.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE SECOND GAMBIT,

    _On the Fourth Move of the Black_.

                    4.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    5.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The queen at the white king’s knight’s 4th.

                    7.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the king’s bishop’s pawn and gives check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square, because if he takes the bishop
       he loses his queen.(a)

                    8.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen at the white king’s knight’s 3d.

(a) By the check of the knight.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king takes the bishop.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. The queen at her king’s knight’s 3d.

                    11.
    W. The king’s knight gives check to the king and queen,
       and wins the game.

The white player’s suffering his bishop to be taken, to get so good a
compensation for him, has something very ingenious in it.

THIRD BACK GAME,

TO THE SECOND GAMBIT,

    _On the Fourth Move of the Black_.

                    4.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the white king’s knight’s 4th.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her king’s rook’s 4th.

                    8.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    10.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. The queen at her king’s knight’s 3d.

                    11.
    W. The rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the pawn.

                    12.
    W. The knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. The queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    13.
    W. The knight takes the pawn.
    B. The queen at her own square.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his 3d square.

                    15.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her own 2d.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. The king castles.

                    17.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    18.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s square.

                    19.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    21.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    22.
    W. The queen at her knight’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    23.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 2d.

                    24.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.

                    25.
    W. King’s bishop at the black queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s 2d.[29]

                    26.
    W. The knight at his queen’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 4th.

[29] Q. Would it not be better to put the _queen’s_ knight at his
_king’s_ second square, because that would force away the white bishop;
and the black king’s bishop might then take the pawn guarded by the
queen, as a gratuitous capture?

                    27.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    28.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The bishop at his king’s knight’s 2d.

                    29.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    30.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    31.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook at his king’s knight’s square.

                    32.
    W. Queen’s rook at his queen’s bishop’s square.
    B. Queen’s rook at his king’s knight’s 3d square.

                    33.
    W. The bishop at the black queen’s knight’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook at his knight’s square.

                    34.
    W. The rook takes the knight.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    35.
    W. The bishop takes the rook.
    B. The king takes the bishop.

                    36.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    37.
    W. The queen at her bishop’s 4th.
    B. The queen at her own 2d.

                    38.
    W. The king’s bishop’s pawn 1 square, to prevent the queen’s check.
    B. The rook at its king’s knight’s square.

                    39.
    W. The queen at the black queen’s bishop’s 3d.(a)
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    40.
    W. The pawn takes the queen.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    41.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

(a) This is highly tactical, because one of the white pawns is doubled,
and this will extend them on the four centre files;—for the black queen
_must_ exchange.

                    42.
    W. The rook at his king’s rook’s square.
    B. The same.

                    43.
    W. The rook at his king’s knight’s square.
    B. The rook at his 2d square.

                    44.
    W. The rook at the black king’s knight’s square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    45.
    W. The rook at the black queen’s rook’s square.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    46.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    47.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at the queen’s square.

                    48.
    W. The king’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    49.
    W. The queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s square.

                    50.
    W. The pawn gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    51.
    W. The rook gives check, the king removes, the pawn is queened,
       and wins the game.

FOURTH BACK GAME,

TO THE SECOND GAMBIT,

    _On the Ninth Move of the Black_.

                    9.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    10.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    11.
    W. The pawn takes the queen.
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.

                    12.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    13.
    W. King’s rook at his knight’s square.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 2d.

                    14.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the gambit pawn.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the queen’s pawn and gives check.

                    15.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

                    16.
    W. King’s rook at the black king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    17.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The queen’s knight takes the pawn.

                    18.
    W. The bishop takes the pawn and gives check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    19.
    W. Queen’s rook at his king’s knight’s square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    20.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook at his queen’s square.

                    21.
    W. The king’s rook gives check at the black king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king at his own square.

                    22.
    W. Queen’s rook at the black king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s square.

                    23.
    W. The knight at the adverse queen’s 4th square—the whites
       _must_ win the game.

THE EDITOR must however confess, that if the queen’s rook, at the
countermove, return to its square; he does not know how to press the
white pieces upon the black king, so that he shall not elude the mate.
If any other piece than the black rook move, there will be an immediate
smothered-mate. If the rook move to any square short of his own, the
defeat of the king will be retarded, in proportion to the area which is
left him.

FIFTH BACK GAME,

TO THE SECOND GAMBIT,

    _On the Eleventh Move of the Black_.

                    11.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. The knight gives check at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    12.
    W. The king at his knight’s square.
    B. The king knight’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    13.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the pawn.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. The knight at his queen’s rook’s 3d.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    15.
    W. The pawn takes the queen.
    B. The king’s knight at his rook’s 4th.

                    16.
    W. The king’s rook takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s knight takes the bishop.

                    17.
    W. The rook takes the knight.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    18.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king castles.

                    19.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s rook’s square.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    21.
    W. The bishop takes the knight.
    B. The rook takes the bishop.

                    22.
    W. Queen’s rook at the adverse king’s rook’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    23.
    W. King’s rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The bishop at his queen’s square.

                    24.
    W. King’s rook at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    25.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    26.
    W. The king’s bishop’s pawn 1 square, and wins the game.

THIRD GAMBIT,

WITH THREE BACK GAMES:

    _The First on the Second, the Second on the Third,
       and the Third on the Eleventh Move of the Black_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(a) ☜

                    3.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the pawn.(b) ☜

(a) If he had pushed this pawn but one square, it would have entirely
changed the game; therefore, I make it the subject of a back game.

    N. B. It is the best way of playing it, in order to avoid
          the snares of your adversary in the Gambit, when you
          receive the advantage of a piece.

(b) He might take your king’s bishop’s pawn with his king’s pawn; the
basis of a material change, and the subject of a back game.

                    4.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the pawn and gives check.

                    5.
    W. The bishop covers the check.(c)
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    8.
    W. The king castles.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

(c) So situated, the game must appear equal: but on a minute balance
the advantage is in your scale, because on your left wing you have four
connected pawns, whilst your adversary’s pawns are in divisions of
three and three, and all separated from the centre.

                    11.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king castles with his rook.(d) ☜

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.(e)
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. The queen at her own square.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s 4th.(f)
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

(d) It was indifferent to him whether he castled on the king’s or on
the queen’s side. After the manœuvre of castling, I have already given
a general rule for impelling your pawns, against his covering pawns;
however, for illustration, I shall give a back game on that duplicate
move.

(e) This would have been wrong had he not castled on his king’s side,
because by pushing his king’s rook’s pawn, he had forced your bishop to
retire; but, at present, it is your interest to excite him to push the
pawns that cover his king, to prepare a breach for the attack.

(f) If he had not removed his queen, to replace her with the king’s
bishop, the play of this knight would have perplexed his game.

                    15.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 2d.(g)

                    16.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The knight takes the knight.

                    17.
    W. The bishop takes the knight.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    18.
    W. The queen at her king’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    19.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.(h)

(g) If, instead of playing his queen, he had taken your knight, you
must have taken his knight with your queen; forcing him to derange
his pieces, by manœuvering to save the mate, with which he would be
threatened.

(h) If, instead of taking, he had withdrawn his bishop, you would then
have taken his king’s knight’s pawn with your knight, and that would
have given you the game.

                    20.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s rook at his queen’s square.(i)

                    21.
    W. King’s rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her 2d square.(k)

                    22.
    W. The king’s rook takes the king’s knight’s pawn, and gives check.
    B. The pawn takes the rook.

                    23.
    W. The queen takes the pawn, and gives check.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.(l)

(i) If he had attacked your queen with his bishop, instead of playing
his rook, you would have taken his bishop with your king’s rook; this,
by making an opening upon his king, would have given you an easier
attack.

(k) If he had not played his queen to this square, you must have taken
his bishop with your rook, and that would have secured the game.

(l) If, instead of withdrawing his king, he had covered him with his
queen, you must have taken his bishop, giving him check; and you would
have been left on the right wing with two pawns and a bishop against a
rook only, added to a good attack, which, improved, would be sufficient
to win the game; but, as he has played his king instead of his queen,
you cannot do better than make an end of the party by a drawn game,
with a perpetual check.

                    24.
    W. The queen takes the pawn, and gives a perpetual check.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE THIRD GAMBIT,

    _On the Second Move of the Black_.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    4.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    5.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    6.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 4th.

                    8.
    W. The king’s bishop gives check at the adverse
       queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s rook’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    10.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d square.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    11.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the queen’s pawn.

                    12.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king castles.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight at the white queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The queen’s knight takes the pawn.

                    15.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen’s knight returns to the white queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    16.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    17.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    18.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    19.
    W. The king at his queen’s square.
    B. The queen at the white queen’s rook’s 3d.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s rook at his bishop’s square.
    B. The queen takes the queen’s rook’s pawn.

                    21.
    W. The queen at the black king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s rook at his knight’s square.

                    22.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    23.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s rook at the white queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    24.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    25.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    26.
    W. The king’s rook takes the pawn.
    B. The king takes the rook.

                    27.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. The king where he can.

                    28.
    W. The queen taking the pawn gives check—makes the following move.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE THIRD GAMBIT,

    _On the Third Move of the Black_.

                    3.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    4.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The queen takes the pawn.

                    5.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s 4th.

                    6.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    7.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 3d.

                    8.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    9.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. The queen at her own 2d.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    11.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    12.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king castles.

                    13.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. King’s knight at the black king’s 4th.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    15.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s square.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s rook at his queen’s square.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    17.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    18.
    W. The queen at the black king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    19.
    W. The queen at the adverse king’s rook’s 3d.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    20.
    W. The king at his knight’s 3d.
    B. The queen’s knight takes the king’s pawn.

                    21.
    W. The knight at his king’s 4th.
    B. The queen at the adverse queen’s 4th.

                    22.
    W. The knight gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The knight takes the knight.

                    23.
    W. The pawn takes the knight.
    B. The game is lost, the mate being forced.[30]

[30] A _forced-mate_ is a mate, which, though a few desperate
sacrifices might protract it, is inevitable.

THIRD BACK GAME,

TO THE THIRD GAMBIT,

    _On the Eleventh Move of the Black_.

                    11.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king castles on his queen’s side.

                    12.
    W. King’s rook at his king’s square.
    B. The queen retires to her king’s bishop’s square.

                    13.
    W. The queen at her rook’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    17.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s rook at his bishop’s square.

                    18.
    W. The knight at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    19.
    W. The knight takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the knight.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s rook at his knight’s square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his king’s 4th.

                    21.
    W. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    22.
    W. The queen at the adverse queen’s rook’s 4th.
    B. The queen gives check at her king’s knight’s 3d.

                    23.
    W. The king at his rook’s square.
    B. The queen returns to her 3d square.

                    24.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The knight takes the pawn.

                    25.
    W. Queen’s rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s square.

                    26.
    W. King’s rook at his queen’s knight’s square.
    B. The knight from his king’s 4th to his queen’s 2d.

                    27.
    W. The queen’s rook takes the rook’s pawn.
    B. The knight takes the rook.

                    28.
    W. The queen takes the knight.
    B. The queen’s rook at his bishop’s 2d.

                    29.
    W. The queen’s pawn 1 square, and wins the game.

If, at the 28th move, the king, instead of the rook, be placed at the
bishop’s second, the game may be protracted, though the mate cannot
be finally eluded.—The practice of forbearing to involve the king in
the conflicts of the field, is a necessary part of good play; but a
mechanical habit of leaving him inactive, without reflecting whether
a sally would or would not promote his defence, must be kept from
insinuating into the player’s manner.

=_The Cunningham Gambit_=,

WITH TWO BACK GAMES:

    _One on the Seventh Move of the Black,
       and One on the Eleventh of the White_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    4.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king’s bishop gives check.

                    5.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    6.
    W. The king castles.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn and gives check.

                    7.
    W. The king at his rook’s square.
    B. King’s bishop at his 3d square.(a) ☜

                    8.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(b)

                    9.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. The knight takes the pawn.

                    10.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

(a) If, instead of playing this bishop to his third square, he had
played him to his king’s second square, you would have won the game in
a few moves, as will be seen by a back game.

    PHILIDOR.

But if the stricture on the tenth move of that back game be correct,
no _previous_ move involves a necessity for the speedy mate which the
black king suffers.

    EDITOR.

(b) If he did not sacrifice his bishop, you would certainly win the
game; but losing _that_ for three pawns, he must conquer by the
superiority of his pawns, provided he is not too hasty in pushing them
before he has got out all his pieces.

                    11.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(c) ☜
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(d)

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    13.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the pawn close to his king.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.(e)

(c) By pushing this pawn two squares you had given his knight a free
entry into your game, which would have lost you the party. The subject
of a back game.

(d) This move is of great consequence to him for ensuring the party,
because it hinders you from attacking his king’s knight with your
queen’s bishop, to effect afterwards a separation of his pawns, by
sacrificing a rook for one of his knights, and this would have turned
the game in your favour.

(e) He plays this knight to take your queen’s bishop, who would be
troublesome to him, were he to castle on his queen’s side. Here we
may observe, as a general rule, that when a player has advanced
pawns, it becomes policy to commence a distinct hostility against the
bishops, because they can menace the pawns, and block their way, more
effectually than any other piece.

                    15.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.(f)
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    16.
    W. The queen takes the knight.
    B. The queen at her knight’s square.(g)

                    17.
    W. The queen takes the queen.(h)
    B. The rook takes the queen.

                    18.
    W. Queen’s rook at his king’s square.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.

(f) Knowing no expedient way to save your bishop, you play your queen
to replace him; for if you had seated him at your king’s bishop’s
fourth, to hinder the check of his knight, he would have pushed his
king’s knight’s pawn upon the bishop, and made you lose the game
immediately.

(g) He offers to exchange queens to break the direction of yours, so
that he may place his queen at her third square, in case you refuse to
take her.

(h) If you did not take the queen, your situation would be still worse.

                    19.
    W. The king’s knight gives check.
    B. The knight takes the knight.

                    20.
    W. The rook takes the knight.
    B. The king at his queen’s 3d.

                    21.
    W. King’s rook at his king’s square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    22.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s rook at his king’s square.

                    23.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    24.
    W. The knight at his king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    25.
    W. The king at his knight’s 2d.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(i)

                    26.
    W. Queen’s rook at his king’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

(i) If he had pushed this pawn two squares you had gained his queen’s
pawn, which would have improved your game.

                    27.
    W. The queen’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    28.
    W. King’s rook at his queen’s rook’s square.
    B. Queen’s rook at his own square.(k)

                    29.
    W. King’s rook returns to his king’s square.
    B. The bishop at his queen’s 2d.

                    30.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    31.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(l)

(k) You must never resign the passages, nor suffer the opponent to
double his rooks; accordingly, rather than suffer this, he proposes to
change piece for piece.

(l) He plays this in order afterwards to push his king’s knight’s pawn
upon your knight, to force him from his position; but if he had pushed
his knight’s pawn before playing this, your knight, vaulting to your
king’s rook’s fourth, would have stopped the progress of all his pawns.

                    32.
    W. King’s rook at his own square.
    B. King’s rook at his 4th square.(m)

                    33.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s rook at his king’s rook’s square.

                    34.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    35.
    W. The knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook at his king’s knight’s 4th.

                    36.
    W. King’s rook at his king’s bishop’s square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    37.
    W. The rook takes the pawn, and gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    38.
    W. King’s rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The pawn gives check.

(m) Had he given check with his rook’s pawn, instead of playing this,
he would have acted contrary to the instruction given in the first
party. _Vide note (x)._

                    39.
    W. The king at his knight’s square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    40.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The pawn gives check.

                    41.
    W. The king takes the knight’s pawn.
    B. The rook’s pawn makes a queen, and gives check.

                    42.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. The rook gives check at his king’s bishop’s square.

                    43.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s rook’s 3d.

                    44.
    W. The knight covers the check.
    B. The queen takes the knight, and gives mate in a few moves.

The black pawns are conducted in a masterly manner on each wing, so as
to lay a foundation for a beneficial result; but the halting march of
the white pawn, which consumes the 33d and 34th moves of the white,
seems to be a waste of a move at a critical period.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE CUNNINGHAM GAMBIT,

    _On the Seventh Move of the Black_.

                    7.
    W. The king at his rook’s square.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    8.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn and gives check.
    B. The king takes the bishop.

                    9.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th square,
       giving double check.
    B. The king at his 3d square; any where, he is liable
       to lose the queen.

                    10.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s knight’s 4th.(a)
    B. The king takes the knight.

                    11.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s 3d.

(a) You waive the capture of the queen, to seize the opportunity of
forcing a mate.

                    12.
    W. The queen gives check-mate at the adverse queen’s 4th.

STRICTURE, and OUTLINES of a VARIATION.

The station assigned to the bishop at the 7th move, is as injudicious
as the advantage taken of it is brilliant;—nevertheless there is no
critical necessity for the mate being so precipitate. The king, at the
10th move, should refuse taking the knight. This creates him chances
of escape, and leaves the hostile party but one mode of effecting
any thing decisive. The knight, adopting that mode, at the following
move, assaults both king and queen. The difficulty and embarrassment
of the black pieces will then appear. The king, in protracting the
struggle, exposes to dispersion and destruction his left wing. Equal
play, exerted so long after a critical stroke, cannot retrieve the
step on which the interest of this back game turns: but equal play
may prevent the sudden extinction of manœuvring; and the practice of
the best defence in situations of which various points are open to
the enemy, imparts a facility at resource. It is not necessary to
be circumstantial, in marking the conduct of the variation. Other
expedients present themselves to retard defeat, the turns of which
the reader may explore: but as the EDITOR finds already one variation
on this back game, he declines multiplying ingraftments of a branch
upon a branch, lest the principle of the gambit should be lost in its
ramifications, and the attention diverted from the leading effect.

SEQUEL

TO THE FIRST BACK GAME;

    _Shewing how to accomplish a Mate, if the King refuse to
       take the Bishop_.

                    8.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn, and gives check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    9.
    W. The king’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    10.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her king’s square.

                    11.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The rook at his king’s knight’s square.

                    12.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.

                    13.
    W. The pawn takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    14.
    W. The bishop takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    15.
    W. The queen at her king’s square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s rook’s 4th.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    17.
    W. The queen’s bishop gives check.
    B. The rook covers the check.

                    18.
    W. The knight at his king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    19.
    W. The knight takes the bishop.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    20.
    W. The knight takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the knight.

                    21.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The king takes the queen.

                    22.
    W. The bishop takes the rook; and wins the game.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE CUNNINGHAM GAMBIT,

    _On the Eleventh Move of the White_.

                    11.
    W. The queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s rook at his bishop’s square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    17.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the knight.

                    18.
    W. The knight takes the pawn close to his king.
    B. The king castles with his rook.

                    19.
    W. The queen at her 2d square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s rook at his queen’s square.

                    21.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s rook’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    22.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    23.
    W. The knight takes the rook.
    B. The queen at her 3d square.

                    24.
    W. The queen at her king’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.

                    25.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The rook takes the queen.

                    26.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his knight’s 3d.

                    27.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    28.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight at his king’s 2d.

                    29.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The rook at his queen’s 2d.

                    30.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The bishop takes the rook.

                    31.
    W. The king at his knight’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    32.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king at his rook’s 4th.

                    33.
    W. The king’s bishop gives check.
    B. The bishop covers the check.

                    34.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The king takes the bishop.

                    35.
    W. The knight gives check at his king’s 3d.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    36.
    W. The king at his rook’s 3d square.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    37.
    W. The knight at his king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    38.
    W. The bishop at his king’s knight’s square.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    39.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    40.
    W. The bishop at his king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The knight takes the queen’s pawn, and wins the party.

During the latter part of this game, the whites had the majority of
a bishop; the blacks that of three pawns: the aid derivable from the
bishop could not countervail the manœuvring of three pawns.

COMPENDIUM of the CUNNINGHAM GAMBIT.

From all the preceding forms of this gambit it appears, that on the
system of action and counteraction there pursued, the blacks must win,
if they do not at the seventh move withdraw the bishop to the king’s
second; and that therefore, on the part of the white pieces, it is
expedient to change the mode of operation previous to that move. When
the black bishop checks, at the fourth countermove, no eventual good
is obtained by covering with the pawn. CUNNINGHAM shews that the step
below is an effective substitution.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    4.
    W. The king’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The bishop gives check.

                    5.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.(a)
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    7.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    8.
    W. The queen’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    9.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the gambit pawn.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the white king’s knight’s 4th.

(a) Playing the king to the bishop’s square, makes it impossible for
the adversary to preserve the gambit pawn, which it will be always in
your power to take; and you will acquire by it a constant attack upon
him.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    11.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s 4th. The whites have the advantage
       of position, and must win.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

       _Printed by W. Smith,
    King Street, Seven Dials._

STUDIES OF CHESS;
                         CONTAINING
                      CAÏSSA, A POEM,

                             BY
                     SIR WILLIAM JONES;

       _A Systematic Introduction to the Game_;

                            AND
                         THE WHOLE
                     ANALYSIS OF CHESS,

                        COMPOSED BY
                MR. A. D. PHILIDOR:
                            WITH
                 Original Critical Remarks.

                      IN TWO VOLUMES.

              "_Ludimus effigiem belli._"

                          VOL. II.

                          London:
    PRINTED FOR SAMUEL BAGSTER, NO. 81, STRAND.
                           1803.

                  _Printed by W. Smith,
               King Street, Seven Dials._

_Contents of the Second Volume._

                PHILIDOR’S WORK CONTINUED.

                                                PAGE
    The Queen’s Gambit                            1
    Regular Parties                              33
    First Regular Party                          34
    Second Regular Party                         49
    Third Regular Party                          54
    Fourth Regular Party                         69
    Fifth Regular Party                          75
    Sixth Regular Party                          81
    The Salvio Gambit—First Party                88
            ——————    Second Party              101
    Supplements to former Games                 107
    Practical Mates and Ends of Parties         120
    Rook and Bishop against a Rook              121
    Mate with a Knight and Bishop               135
    A Rook and Pawn against a Bishop            142
    Mate with a Rook                            148
    The Queen against a Rook and Pawn           152
    The Queen against a Rook                    160
    Rook and Pawn against a Rook                168
    Queen and Pawn against a Queen              172
    Drawn Game with a Pawn                      181
    A Knight against a Pawn                     185
    Two Pawns against One                       187
    Two separate, against Two united Pawns      194
    Observations on Ends of Parties,
         and Powers of Pieces combined          196
    The Laws of Chess                           199
    Games played without seeing the Board       205
      ——  First Match                           206
      ——  Second Match                          226
      ——  Third Match                           244
    Appendix                                    259

ANALYSIS OF _CHESS_.

The Queen’s Gambit,

OTHERWISE CALLED THE GAMBIT OF ALEPPO, WITH SIX BACK GAMES;

_Respectively on the Third Move of the White, the Third Move of the
Black, the Fourth Move of the White, the Seventh Move of the White, the
Eighth Move of the Black, and the Tenth Move of the White_.

                    1.
    W. The queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    3.
    W. King’s pawn 2 squares.(a) ☜
    B. King’s pawn 2 squares.(b) ☜

                    4.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(c) ☜
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(d)

                    5.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

(a) Had you pushed this pawn but one square, your adversary would have
confined your queen’s bishop during half the game. The subject of the
first back game.

(b) If, instead of playing this, he had sustained the gambit pawn, he
would have lost the game; as will be seen by the second back game: but,
if he had neither pushed this pawn, nor sustained the gambit pawn, you
must have pushed your king’s bishop’s pawn two squares, in order to
have three pawns in front.

(c) Had you taken his king’s pawn, you would have lost the advantage of
the attack. The subject of the third back game.

(d) If he had played any thing else, by pushing _your_ king’s bishop’s
pawn two squares, you would have procured for your pieces an entire
liberty to act.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 4th.(e) ☜
    B. The bishop takes the king’s knight.(f)

                    8.
    W. The rook takes the bishop.
    B. The King castles.(g) ☜

                    9.
    W. The knight returns to his queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

(e) If, instead of playing your knight, in order to get rid of his
king’s bishop, according to the rule prescribed in the first party,
note (_c_), you had taken the gambit’s pawn, you had lost the game. The
subject of the fourth back game.

(f) If, instead of taking your knight, he had played his bishop to your
queen’s fourth, you might have attacked him with your king’s knight,
and left him no possibility of escape.

(g) If he had pushed his queen’s knight’s pawn two squares, in order
to sustain the gambit pawn, he had lost the game; (as is exemplified
in the fifth back game) and if, instead of that, or the move he has
adopted, he had chosen to take your king’s pawn, your taking his
capturing pawn would not commit yours to his knight; because, were
he to take it with his knight, he would lose the game, through a
subsequent check from your queen.

                    10.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the gambit pawn.(h) ☜
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    11.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.(i)
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    13.
    W. The queen at her 2d square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his 3d square.

                    14.
    W. The bishop takes the knight.
    B. The rook’s pawn takes the bishop.

                    15.
    W. The king castles on his queen’s side.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.

(h) This critical move requires a back game: if you had taken the first
of his double pawns with your king’s bishop’s pawn, you would have lost
the game.

(i) In taking with this pawn, you give your rook an opening upon his
king.

                    16.

    W. King’s rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    17.
    W. The queen at her king’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her 3d square.

                    18.
    W. The knight at his king’s 4th.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    19.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop; uniting with his queen’s pawn.[31]
    B. The king’s rook at his king’s square.

                    20.
    W. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 4th.(k)

(k) Your queen’s imposing aspect on the adversary’s left wing,
continually alarms him for the safety of his king. He sees that were
you to place your queen’s rook at the king’s bishop’s square, he could
only prevent check-mate, were he to keep the queen, by placing her at
the counter-square, which would contract her sphere of action very
much; he therefore makes an offer to change the queens, as the most
eligible mode of extinguishing the danger; which you must accept, or
give him the attack.

[31] It is not strictly uniform to insert comments in the text, yet as
the ease of the reader seems consulted by it, when they are so simple
as to require no pause, the Editor retains them there.

                    21.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The pawn takes the queen.

                    22.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s square.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.(l)

                    23.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    24.
    W. King’s rook at its knight’s 3d.
    B. The knight at his king’s rook’s 4th.

                    25.
    W. The rook assailed by the knight at its queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    26.
    W. The queen’s pawn 1 square, to make an opening for your rook
       and bishop.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

(l) Some moves which want an obvious motive, are explained by the
following move.

                    27.
    W. The king’s rook takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s rook at its queen’s square.

                    28.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s square.
    B. The knight at its king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    29.
    W. The king’s rook gives check.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.

                    30.
    W. The bishop at the adverse queen’s 4th; to stop
       the adversary’s pawn.
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    31.
    W. The rook takes the knight.
    B. King’s rook at its bishop’s square.

                    32.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    33.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    34.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The rook takes the pawn.

                    35.
    W. King’s rook at the adverse king’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    36.
    W. One of the rooks takes the pawn.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    37.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The rook gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    38.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The rook takes the pawn.

                    39.
    W. The rook’s pawn 2 squares.(m)
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    40.
    W. The rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    41.
    W. The rook at its king’s square.
    B. The knight’s pawn 1 square.

(m) If, instead of playing this, you had taken his pawn with your rook,
you would have lost the game; because your king would have prevented
your rook from arriving at the promotion line, in time to stop the
passage of his knight’s pawn.

                    42.
    W. The rook at its king’s knight’s square.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    43.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.

                    44.
    W. The rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook at its knight’s 2d.

                    45.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    46.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    47.
    W. The rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook takes the pawn.(n)

                    48.
    W. The rook takes the pawn.(o)
    B. The rook at his king’s rook’s 2d.

(n) Had he not taken your pawn, you would have won the game immediately.

(o) If, instead of taking his pawn, you had taken his rook, you would
have lost the game.

                    49.
    W. The pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn 1 square.

                    50.
    W. The rook at its king’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.

                    51.
    W. The pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his knight’s 3d.

                    52.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his knight’s 4th.

                    53.
    W. The pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    54.
    W. The pawn advances.

    B. Takes the pawn with the rook, and playing afterwards
       his king upon the rook, it must be a drawn game.

In pursuing a literal course through the steps of this gambit, the
attention is repaid by numberless strokes, well designed and well
parried. It is observable that this is the first party that has not
opened with the move of the king’s pawn. For the leading steps of this
model, the boards of EUROPE are indebted to a City in the EAST—the
EAST which as it gave birth to Chess, has had expert players from an
immemorial era.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE QUEEN’S GAMBIT,

    _On the Third Move of the White_.

                    3.
    W. The king’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    7.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    8.
    W. The king castles.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    9.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    10.
    W. The rook takes the queen.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the pawn.

                    11.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 4th.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    13.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    14.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d square.
    B. The knight at his queen’s 4th.

                    16.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.

                    17.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    18.
    W. The knight at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    19.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    20.
    W. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s rook at its king’s knight’s square.

                    21.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his 3d square.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    22.
    W. The bishop takes the rook.
    B. The pawn takes the king’s pawn giving check.

                    23.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The rook takes the bishop.

                    24.
    W. King’s bishop at his 3d square.
    B. The king at his 3d square.

                    25.
    W. King’s rook at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The queen’s pawn gives check.

                    26.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s 4th.

                    27.
    W. Queen’s rook at his king’s square.
    B. The king at his queen’s 4th.

                    28.
    W. King’s rook at its king’s 2d.
    B. The rook at its king’s square.

                    29.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    30.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    31.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    32.
    W. King’s rook at the adverse king’s rook’s square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    33.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king’s bishop’s gives check at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    34.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 4th square, having no better place.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square, and wins the game.

The mode in the Cunningham Gambit was synthetical: but it will be
recollected, that the conduct of this gambit is properly analytical.
The first form of it presents a series of moves critically good;
embracing, throughout, the expedient, in moving for both parties.
Slightly surveyed, it may seem less brilliant than the back games, as
the balance of play precludes a decisive result, while it is, on that
account, superior to them. As the management of the queen’s gambit
is delicate, and depends on circumstances apparently trivial, at the
opening; the back games are to shew the advantage which one party gives
to the other, by deviating from the model at particular stages.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE QUEEN’S GAMBIT,

    _On the Third Move of the Black_.

                    3.
    W. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The gambit pawn takes the pawn.

                    6.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    7.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn, and gives check.
    B. The bishop covers the check.

                    8.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    9.
    W. The queen takes the bishop, and gives check.
    B. The queen covers the check.

                    10.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The knight takes the queen.

                    11.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    12.
    W. The king at his 2d square.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    13.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s 4th.

                    15.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s bishop at its rook’s 3d.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    17.
    W. The rook takes the bishop.
    B. The knight at his 2d square.

                    18.
    W. The knight at his bishop’s 3d square.
    B. King’s rook at its queen’s knight’s square.

                    19.
    W. The knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. The king at his 3d square.

                    20.
    W. King’s rook at its queen’s rook’s square.
    B. King’s rook at its queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    21.
    W. The queen’s rook gives check.
    B. The knight covers the check.

                    22.
    W. King’s rook at the adverse queen’s rook’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    23.
    W. The knight at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook at its queen’s square.

                    24.
    W. The queen’s rook takes the rook’s pawn.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    25.
    W. The rook takes the rook, and must win the game.

THIRD BACK GAME,

TO THE QUEEN’S GAMBIT,

    _On the Fourth Move of the White_.

                    4.
    W. The queen’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    5.
    W. The king takes the queen.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    8.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. The king castles.

                    10.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    11.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    12.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    13.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    14.
    W. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.

                    15.
    W. The knight takes the bishop.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s knight at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    17.
    W. Queen’s rook at its 2d square.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    18.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    19.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    20.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    21.
    W. The rook at its queen’s square.
    B. The queen’s knight gives check at the white queen’s 4th.

                    22.
    W. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    23.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    24.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    25.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    26.
    W. The bishop at his king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    27.
    W. The knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s rook’s 4th.

                    28.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

                    29.
    W. The bishop takes the pawn.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    30.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    31.
    W. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The knight at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    32.
    W. The pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook at its queen’s rook’s square.

                    33.
    W. The rook takes the pawn.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    34.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

    B. The rook gives heck-mate at the bishop’s square.

FOURTH BACK GAME,

TO THE QUEEN’S GAMBIT,

    _On the Seventh Move of the White_.

                    7.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the gambit pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    8.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    9.
    W. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    10.
    W. The king at his queen’s 2d.
    B King’s knight at the adverse king’s 3d.

                    11.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    12.
    W. The queen at her 3d square.
    B. The king’s knight takes the pawn.

                    13.
    W. King’s knight at his own square.
    B. The queen at the adverse king’s square, giving check.

                    14.
    W. The king retires.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the knight, and must win the game.

FIFTH BACK GAME,

TO THE QUEEN’S GAMBIT,

    _On the Eighth Move of the Black_.

                    8.
    W. The rook takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    9.
    W. The knight at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king castles.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    11.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    12.
    W. The rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The bishop takes the pawn.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s knight pawn 1 square.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    14.
    W. The queen’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The bishop at his queen’s 2d.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    16.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.

                    17.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    18.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

                    19.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The knight at his rook’s 4th.

                    20.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The knight at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    21.
    W. The queen at her bishop’s 2d.
    B. The knight takes the bishop, to avoid the mate.

                    22.
    W. The queen takes the knight.
    B. The bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    23.
    W. The queen gives check.
    B. The king retires.

                    24.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The bishop takes the pawn.

                    25.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    26.
    W. Queen’s rook at the adverse queen’s rook’s 3d.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    27.
    W. The queen’s rook takes the queen.
    B. King’s rook at its bishop’s 2d.

                    28.
    W. The king at his 2d square.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    29.
    W. Queen’s rook at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    30.
    W. The rook takes the pawn.
    B. The rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    31.
    W. King’s rook at its queen’s rook’s square.
    B. The rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    32.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s 3d.
    B. King’s rook at its bishop’s 3d.

                    33.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    34.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    35.
    W. The king takes the rook.
    B. The rook at its queen’s rook’s 3d.

                    36.
    W. The king at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.

                    37.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    38.
    W. The king at his queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The rook takes the pawn.

                    39.
    W. The rook takes the pawn.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    40.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    41.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    42.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    43.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    44.
    W. The pawn covers the check.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    45.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king at his own square.

                    46.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The rook at its king’s rook’s 3d.

                    47.

    W. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d, and
       by pushing his pawn he will win the game.

SIXTH BACK GAME,

TO THE QUEEN’S GAMBIT,

    _On the Tenth Move of the White_.

                    10.
    W. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s knight takes the king’s pawn.

                    11.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    12.
    W. The knight at his king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    13.
    W. The king’s bishop at his king’s 2d.
    B. The queen takes the rook’s pawn.

                    14.
    W. King’s rook at its bishop’s square.
    B. The queen takes the knight, and gives check.

                    15.
    W. The king at his queen’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    16.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    17.
    W. The queen at her king’s square.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d,
       and must win the game.

Setting aside the move in each, which is distinctly pointed out
as inducing defeat in its ultimate tendency, the moves in these
back-games are made with a penetrating regard to consequences; and in
a circumspection in the use of stratagem and resource, which is not
detected intermitting, in any of the skirmishes of the party, may be
traced the revising attentions, and mellowing touches, of a succession
of players.

=_Regular Parties_=.

The range of gambits is not completed, and yet we propose to enter
on some regular parties. Without proceeding on the idea, that the
reader will play the games as they are presented, the order of which a
diversity in the degree of proficiency, and an individual pursuit of
peculiar attainments, as _desiderata_, will occasion every one more or
less to break; it will perhaps be expected, that modes of play, which
by their properties seem assigned to a common class, should not be
detached in their arrangement, without apology or explanation.

The various gambits agree in this, that they proceed rather on
experiment than on system, and the surrender of the pawn, is a feature
common to them all: but they so diverge in the field of stratagem
after this step, that their course of evolutions cannot be traced to
any participation of principle, nor is there any necessary connection
between them.—For these reasons, and that the cultivation of regular
play may not continue suspended, without an adequate cause, the EDITOR
follows the arrangement of PHILIDOR, in introducing some examples of
attack and defence strictly systematic before the Salvio gambits.
By pursuing alternately the severe walk of method, which moves to
the end by a gradual process; and the devious flight of adventure,
which attempts the game by a _coup de main_; the spirit of each may
be rendered easier to seize, as the traits in which their opposition
consists, are seen in contrast.

=_First Regular Party_=,

WITH FOUR BACK GAMES;

_The First on the Third Move of the Black, the Second on the Fourth
Move of the White, the Third on the Fifth Move of the Black, the last
on the Sixth Move of the White_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.(a)
    B. The same.(b)

(a) This is the best place the king’s bishop can occupy in the first
moves of a party; here, he batters the adverse king’s bishop’s pawn,
against which the first attacks are generally formed.

(b) The black being able to play different ways, we will make different
parties of it.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d square.(c) ☜

                    4.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(d) ☜
    B. The same.(e) ☜

                    5.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(f)

(c) He prevents you from establishing two pawns a-breast, and occupying
the centre. To prevent that, the black has three other ways of moving
at this period, the effects of which are severally shewn, in the first
back game, the supplement to the first back game, and the third back
game.

(d) If you had moved this knight to your king’s second square, you
would have lost the game: one object exemplified in the second back
game.

(e) He would have laid a foundation for his own defeat, had he taken
your pawn with his bishop: another object exemplified in the second
back game.

(f) Had he attacked your king’s bishop’s pawn with his knight, it
would have given you time to establish your pawns in the centre. The
consequence is seen in the third back game.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(g) ☜
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(h)

                    7.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The same.(i)

                    8.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.(k)
    B. The king’s bishop takes the bishop.(l)

(g) If you had pushed this pawn two squares, you might have occupied
the centre for a moment, but could not have remained there; as is shewn
by the fourth back game.

(h) If he had moved his queen’s bishop to your king’s knight’s fourth
square, you must equally have advanced your king’s rook’s pawn; you
must never leave your superior pieces to the menace of the adverse
bishop.

(i) The pawns have been played on both sides to prevent the bishops
from becoming troublesome to the knights.

(k) When your queen’s pawn cannot be interposed to the action of
the adverse king’s bishop upon your king’s bishop’s pawn, you must
have your queen’s bishop in reserve, to be posted at your king’s
third square; because the queen’s bishop is the only piece which can
effectually be opposed to the adverse king’s bishop.

(l) If he had moved back his king’s bishop, instead of taking your
bishop, he would have lost a turn: when you exchange pieces it is an
advantage to take first.

                    9.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    10.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.(m)

                    11.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The same.

                    12.
    W. The king castles with his rook.
    B. The same.

(m): An additional advantage now appears from playing your king’s
rook’s pawn at the seventh move, for he might at present attack you
with his king’s knight, and afterwards play his king’s bishop’s pawn
to bring the knight again into action; these hits ought to be eagerly
improved, especially in parties wherein your adversary forces out your
knights before your pawns.

The game is equal; the white has only, what he set out with, the move;
he who can first bring his king’s bishop’s pawn into play, by pushing
it two squares, without making any sacrifice, or deranging his pieces,
will have the superiority of situation. The uniformity arises from the
black player’s making his moves duplicates of the adverse moves, which
he has hitherto done with propriety and success: but such a plan of
counteraction is to be pursued with reserve and discrimination, and not
excessively or mechanically. A player who should continue it, from this
situation, having the move against him, would certainly lose.

FIRST BACK GAME,

    _On the Third Move of the Black_.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(a)

                    4.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.(b) ☜

                    5.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn.
    B. The king takes the bishop.(c)

(a) He plays this knight to hinder you from pushing your queen’s pawn
two squares. If, instead of this knight, he had played his queen’s
bishop’s pawn a square, your next move might equally take place.

(b) He might have withdrawn his bishop to his queen’s knight’s third,
which move will make a supplement to this back game.

(c) If he refuse to take your bishop, you must take his king’s knight,
and push your queen’s knight’s pawn two squares, attacking his bishop;
and afterwards push the same pawn upon his knight, in order to take the
pawn with your queen’s bishop’s pawn gratuitously, instead of changing
pawns.

                    6.
    W. The queen at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    7.
    W. The queen takes the bishop, and will have a very good game.

SUPPLEMENT

TO THE FIRST BACK GAME,

    _On the Fourth Move of the Black_.

                    4.
    W. The queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    5.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. The queen at her 3d square.
    B. The king castles.

                    7.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    8.
    W. The king’s pawn 1 square.(a)
    B. The queen’s pawn 2 squares.(b)

(a) If on this attack, he withdraws his knight, he gives you an
opportunity of establishing your pawns in the centre.

(b) He hereby limits the operation of your king’s bishop, and gains
time to assign a place of safety and utility to his knight.

                    9.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th.

                    10.
    W. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(c)

                    11.
    W. The queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.(d)

(c) In order that he may place his queen’s bishop at his king’s third
square, without disturbance from your pawn.

(d) In this situation the black pieces have as good a game as the
white; there is indeed a pawn passed and sustained on the side of the
white; but this advantage is counterbalanced by the imposing attitude
of the black king’s knight, who cannot be dislodged but by changing
piece for piece; and in that case, the pawns of the black would unite
in the centre, giving, equally to them as to the white, a passed pawn.

SECOND BACK GAME,

    _On the Fourth Move of the White_.

                    4.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.(a)
    B. The king’s bishop takes the pawn, and gives check.

                    5.
    W. The king takes the bishop.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 4th, giving check.

                    6.
    W. The queen’s pawn covers the check.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her king’s 3d.(b)

(a) If this move did not cost you a pawn, it would undoubtedly be
the most politic, as it is the most convenient place for the knight;
because, here he does not obstruct the passage of the pawns. But it is
sometimes expedient to obstruct the pawns with the knight, to avoid a
greater disadvantage. See the supplement to this back game.

(b) The black must win the game, having the advantage of a pawn, added
to a good situation.

SUPPLEMENT

TO THE SECOND BACK GAME,

    _On the Fourth Move of the White_.

                    4.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the pawn, and gives check.(a)

                    5.
    W. The king takes the bishop.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 4th, giving check.

                    6.
    W, The queen’s pawn covers the check.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.

                    7.
    W. The king’s knight takes the king’s pawn.
    B. The queen at her king’s 3d.

                    8.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

(a) This, by forcing your king to move, disables him from castling; but
there is no disadvantage involved in not castling, when your pieces can
easily get out; very often it is even better so, provided your king be
safe.

                    9.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    10.
    W. King’s rook at its king’s square.
    B. The king castles.(b)

(b) So situated the white player has the advantage, his pieces being
brought out to better effect, and more conveniently arranged.

THIRD BACK GAME,

    _On the Fifth Move of the Black_.

                    5.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    7.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s bishop gives check.

                    8.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(a)
    B. The king’s knight returns to his bishop’s 3d.(b)

(a) If he take this knight with his bishop it will mend your game,
because the change will bring your pawns into the centre.

(b) You might push your king’s pawn on his knight, and get two moves by
so doing; but this pawn once pushed, your adversary would offer twice
to change it, by pushing his queen’s pawn a square, and his king’s
bishop’s pawn a square: your pawn would then remain alone and separate;
it is therefore better to leave your two pawns a-breast, to avoid
opening your game. In marching his knight, and retrograding, he has
uselessly consumed two moves.

                    9.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king castles.(c)

                    10.
    W. The king castles.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    11.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The same.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.(d)

(c) He castles, to attack your king’s pawn with his rook; you
must therefore castle, to be ready to sustain the pawn with your
counter-rook.

(d) It is evident that the white player has the better game, having
the advantage of three moves more than the black, and the centre pawns
tactically advanced: nothing remains on the side of the white, but to
remove the obstruction to the motion of the king’s bishop’s pawn as
soon as possible; that will decide the game against the black.

FOURTH BACK GAME,

    _On the Sixth Move of the White_.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    7.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s bishop gives check.

                    8.
    W. The queen’s bishop covers the check.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    9.
    W. The queen’s knight takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

This party is equal; your pawns in the centre are broken: this mode
of play may be ventured with an antagonist to whom you give some
advantage: by such a player, you rely that every critical opportunity
will not be seized, or you would not give the advantage.

=_Second Regular Party_=,

VARIANT FROM THE FIRST PARTY, AT THE SECOND MOVE OF THE BLACK.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    4.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(a)
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

(a) Though stationing the pieces before the pawns must not be wantonly
engaged in, I think this play is necessary in the present situation, to
keep the advantage of the move; nevertheless, you might at the fourth
move push your king’s bishop’s pawn two squares: such a game, though
it embarks in danger, is calculated to disconcert a mere observer of
routine, to whom some advantage is given.

                    5.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king castles.(b)

                    6.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.(c)

                    7.
    W. The king castles.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.(d)

                    8.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

(b) If, instead of castling, he had played his queen’s bishop to
your king’s knight’s fourth, you might have played your queen to her
knight’s third, which would have given you the game; but should he
play the same bishop to his king’s third, take him with yours, and
afterwards play your queen to her knight’s third.

(c) If he had not adopted counterplay, his king’s bishop must have been
forced by your pawns.

(d) Had he played this bishop to your king’s knight’s fourth, you must
have pushed your queen’s pawn; and, varying again, if he take your
king’s knight with his bishop, you take with your knight’s pawn, the
better to bring your rooks into play, as they then have an approach to
the pawns that cover the adverse king.

                    9.
    W. The queen at her knight’s 3d.(e)
    B. The queen at her bishop’s square.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    11.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.(f)

                    12.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The same.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

(e) Your queen attacks two pawns, which your adversary can only sustain
by placing his queen at her bishop’s square; this situation may take
place in the first moves of a party, and very frequently your adversary
finds himself unable to sustain the two pawns at once.

(f) If he had played his bishop to your queen’s knight’s fourth, your
must have sustained your king’s pawn with your queen.

                    14.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(g)
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    15.
    W. The pawn takes the knight.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(h)

                    16.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    17.
    W. King’s rook at its bishop’s 2d.
    B. The queen at her 2d square.

(g) You thus force the knight to retreat or to take, which is better
than suffering him to hover over the pieces, to make a capture at his
own discretion.

(h) He plays this pawn to hinder your knight from attacking his king’s
pawn, as otherwise he would be forced to defend it with his rook, which
would afford you time to double your rooks on the file of your king’s
bishop. It is proper to observe, that in almost every case, whoever
commands an opening with double rooks, must have the advantage; it is
therefore an established maxim not to yield up these passes.

                    18.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s bishop’s square.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.(i)

(i) So situated, the white must have chiefly in view to oblige the
adversary to push his king’s pawn a square, so that he may place a
knight, sustained by two pawns, at the fourth square of the adverse
king’s bishop, which ought to decide the game in his favour: the black
will, in opposition, seek the means of doubling the two rooks, and
bring the queen’s bishop’s pawn into play, by pushing him two squares.

=_Third Regular Party_=,

Variant from the First Party, at the Second Move of the Black,

WITH THREE BACK GAMES;

    _On the Third, the Seventh, and the Eleventh Move of the Black_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(a)

                    3.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.(b) ☜

(a) He prepares to push his queen’s pawn two squares, in order to
intercept the action of your king’s bishop, occupy the centre with his
pawns, and recover the advantage of the move.

(b) He might, according to his first design, have pushed his queen’s
pawn two squares. This will furnish interest for a back game.

                    4.
    W. The queen takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(c)

                    5.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.(d)

                    6.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(e) ☜

(c) If he had played his king’s knight to his bishop’s third square,
you must have attacked the knight with your king’s pawn, by which play
you would have won many moves.

(d) If, instead, he had advanced his king’s bishop’s pawn two squares,
you must then have pushed your king’s pawn.

(e) He makes this move in order to break your pawns in the centre, or
be able to establish his pawns strongly on his queen’s side: he would
have played wrong, had he pushed his queen’s bishop’s pawn upon your
queen; as appears by a back game.

                    8.
    W. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.(f)

                    9.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 2d.(g)
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    11.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(h) ☜

(f) It would have been improper for the adversary to take with his
queen’s bishop’s pawn, because his pieces would be confined, and their
sphere of action less extensive than yours.

(g) It would be wrong to give check with your queen, because it would
answer no useful purpose, and for any other, she ought not to be
removed from one of the four files in the centre; you must, on the
contrary, keep her behind your principal pawns, especially in the
beginning of a party.

(h) It would have been bad play to push his queen’s bishop’s pawn; and
a back game on this move will shew it to be of consequence, when you
have a cordon of pawns, to push the leading one.

                    12.
    W. The king castles.
    B. The queen at her 4th square.

                    13.
    W. King’s rook at its queen’s square.(i)
    B. The king castles.(k)

                    14.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 2d.(l)

(i) This move is indispensible to prevent him from pushing his queen’s
bishop’s pawn, which would bring two of his pawns a-breast upon your
ground; besides, affording a favourable opportunity for his bishop to
get out.

(k) If he had pushed his queen’s knight’s pawn two squares, you would
have won a pawn, by attacking his queen with your queen’s knight.

(l) This party is quite even, the position is as good on one side as
the other, the bishops are reduced to a narrow field, and the rooks are
free.

FIRST BACK GAME,

    _On the Third Move of the Black_.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    4.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    5.
    W. The king’s bishop gives check.(a)
    B. The bishop covers the check.

                    6.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    7.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The knight takes the pawn.

(a) If, instead of giving check, you had removed this bishop to your
queen’s third square, you would have lost the advantage, both of the
move and of the situation, because he would immediately have made
himself master of the centre, by pushing his king’s pawn.

                    8.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. The same.(b)

                    9.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king castles.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    11.
    W. The king castles.

(b) If he had sustained this knight by any other piece, he would have
been subject to lose him, by your pushing the king’s bishop’s pawn two
squares.

PHILIDOR leaving the conduct of the party here—adds—"Such being the
situation of the game, you have chiefly two objects in view: first,
to fortify the queen’s bishop, whose direction annoys the adverse
king, and next to attack the queen’s pawn, which being separated from
the other pawns, can no longer be sustained but by the pieces. It is
always advantageous to attack a separated pawn, were it only to employ
the adverse pieces." This direction consigns the black pieces to the
defensive: but if the EDITOR rightly interprets the indications of
their situation, timid play must be discarded. As the black knight
loses two moves, by the retreating course, assigned him in the back
game, it is requisite to attempt a variation.

VARIATION BY THE EDITOR,

    _On the Tenth Move of the Black_.

    Return the king to his square—the rook to his
    square—the white queen’s bishop to his square—the
    black queen’s knight to his king’s fourth.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The knight at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.(a)

(a) He takes an assailing position, leaving you to attack the exposed
pawn as you can. The knight is protected by an ambuscaded check.
Several pieces, in the course of the variation, are so protected.

                    11.
    W. The king castles.
    B. The queen at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.

                    12.
    W. The queen gives check.(b)
    B. The rook covers the check.

                    13.
    W. The queen’s rook takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the pawn and gives check.

                    14.
    W. The king removes.
    B. Queen’s knight at his 3d square.(c)

                    15.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    16.
    W. The king at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The king’s bishop at the adverse queen’s
    knight’s 4th.

(b) Were the adverse queen suffered to take the pawn, in the present
situation of the pieces, there would be a smothered-mate.

(c) To prevent check-mate. From the present position, he must not stir,
while the adverse rook and queen menace his queen, unless to take the
rook, or to give check.

The black player has the best of the game. Whatever changes take place
must be to his advantage. As the juncture did not favor the promotion
of the single black pawn; involved play against the adverse superior
pieces, was the only expedient by which the black pieces could support
a competition. If at the 11th move, the white king should not castle,
and the attacked pawn should be moved against the knight, the black
queen must still go to the adverse knight’s 4th.

SECOND BACK GAME,

    _On the Seventh Move of the Black_.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(a)

                    8.
    W. The queen at her 3d square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The same.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(b)
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

(a This allows you to lay a foundation for a result) in your favour.
You must give him no other opportunity of pushing his queen’s pawn; if
you succeed, his king’s bishop must remain imprisoned, and your pieces
will cover more ground than those of your adversary.

(b) This move is essential; he would otherwise have attacked your queen
with his queen’s knight; by which he would have obtained liberty to
push his queen’s pawn, and disengage his pieces.

                    11.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d square.
    B. The king castles.

                    12.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(c)
    B. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 4th.(d)

                    13.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s square.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

(c) If circumstances had permitted you to remove your queen’s bishop to
the king’s third square, he would have played his king’s knight to his
fifth square, in order to take your bishop, and free that of his king.
It is convenient to preserve a bishop of the same diagonal with your
adversary. The oblique action of the bishop is very dangerous, and the
best defence is to oppose bishop to bishop.

(d) He plays this knight in order to exchange him for your bishop.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s knight’s square.(e)
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(f)

                    16.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    17.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 4th.

                    18.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 4th.(g)

(e) None of the attacks of the adversary are dangerous, because they
do not break your centre; and you may dislodge the knights whenever
you please; this proves that real attacks are to be made only by the
co-operation of several pieces, and very seldom succeed with one or two.

(f) In order to hinder your queen’s knight from attacking his queen’s
pawn.

(g) Instead of removing this knight, he might have sustained him by
playing his queen to her knight’s third square: then you would have
pushed your king’s knight’s pawn.

                    19.
    W. The king castles.(h)

(h) In this situation you have a practicable road for the attainment
of the game, but it will depend on preventing the adverse queen’s pawn
from advancing, and on not being too hasty in pushing the pawns on the
right wing, till the king is ready to sustain them.

THIRD BACK GAME,

    _On the Eleventh Move of the Black_.

                    11.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. The king’s bishop gives check.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(a)
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.

                    14.
    W. The king castles with his rook.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 4th.(b)

                    15.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s square.(c)
    B. The king’s knight takes the bishop.

(a) If he take your knight, his queen must necessarily fall into your
hands, because it cannot be sustained by any other pawn; besides, you
may attack it with all your pieces.

(b) He plays this knight to get rid of your bishop, and open afterwards
a passage for his king’s bishop upon your king and queen, which would
prove very dangerous.

(c) Your view is, to oblige him, either to sustain the pawn of his
queen, or to take your knight.

                    16.
    W. The queen takes the knight.
    B. Queen’s knight at his king’s 2d.

                    17.
    W. The king at his rook’s square.(d)
    B. The king’s bishop takes the knight.(e)

                    18.
    W. The pawn takes the bishop.
    B. The king castles.(f)

(d) You might have taken his queen’s pawn with your knight, and
afterwards played your queen to your king’s fourth, to force his
knight; but he would then have disentangled his queen by giving check;
so that this move is previously necessary.

(e) Being no longer able defensively to sustain his queen’s pawn; he is
forced to take your knight, to preserve it.

(f) In this situation, the white player must win; the remaining
measures being, to hinder the adverse queen’s pawn from coming into
play, and to sustain the centre pawns, not advancing them too hastily.

=_Fourth Regular Party_=,

Variant from the First Party on the Third Move of the Black,

WITH ONE BACK GAME,

    _On the Fifth Move of the White_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The same.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    4.

    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(a)
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

(a) You might push this pawn only one square, but then your situation
would be the same, as that already shewn in the first variation.

                    5.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.(b) ☜
    B. The king’s bishop gives check.(c)

                    6.
    W. The queen’s bishop covers the check.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    7.
    W. The queen’s knight takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(d)

                    8.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The knight takes the pawn.

                    9.
    W. The queen at her knight’s 3d.(e)
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

(b) Instead of taking, you might push the king’s pawn a square, which
would not be amiss against a player to whom some advantage is given.
The subject of a back game.

(c) Had he removed his bishop to his queen’s knight’s third, he would
have committed himself, and conspired to establish your pawns in the
centre.

(d) Had he not played in this manner, he would have given you time to
occupy the centre with your pawns.

(e) You might give check with your queen at your king’s second square,
but this move would enable your adversary to educe his queen’s bishop;
besides, the king and queen are, generally, not to be placed on the
same line, especially when the file is left open by the exchange of
each party’s pawn.

                    10.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. The king castles.

                    11.
    W. The king castles with his rook.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s knight’s 3d.(f)

                    12.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    13.
    W. The queen at her bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    14.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(g)
    B. The same.(h)

(f) He plays this with a view, either to get out his queen’s bishop, or
to remove your king’s bishop.

(g) You push this pawn to break the chain of pawns that cover his king.

(h) As he has pushed his king’s bishop’s pawn two squares, you must
endeavour to post one of your knights at the adverse king’s fourth
square, from whence he cannot be removed but by an exchange, and an
exchange will unite your pawns in the centre.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s knight at his king’s bishop 3d.(i)

                    17.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s square.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s 4th.

                    18.
    W. The queen at her 2d square.(k)
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    19.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.(l)

(i) He will not concentre your pawns by taking your knight.

(k) This move is necessary, to prevent his knight from occupying your
king’s third square.

(l) I should think the white has the better game, on account of the
place where the queen’s knight stands; however, such an advantage,
unaccompanied by any other, is not decisive: the black must not take
the knight before he has displaced one of the pawns that sustain the
knight, which may be done by changing the queen’s bishop’s pawn for the
adverse queen’s pawn, and then both games will be even.

FIRST BACK GAME,

    _On the Fifth Move of the White_.

                    5.
    W. The king’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.(a)

                    6.
    W. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The King’s bishop gives check.

                    7.
    W. The queen’s bishop covers the check.(b)
    B. The king’s bishop takes the bishop.

                    8.
    W. The queen’s knight takes the bishop.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(c)

(a) Had he withdrawn his knight, that move alone would have given you
the game.

(b) You might cover check with your queen’s knight, placing him at his
bishop’s third, and if he then played his king’s knight to your king’s
fourth, you would not be without means of sustaining your centre; in
that situation, his best play would be to push his queen’s pawn two
squares.

(c) Had he pushed this pawn two squares, your centre would have been
safe.

                    9.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.(d)
    B. The queen’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    10.
    W. The queen’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. King’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    11.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    12.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.(e)

(d) If your king’s bishop’s pawn had been played two squares, he might
have broken your pawns, by pushing his queen’s bishop’s pawn to the
full extent.

(e) The black player has succeeded in breaking the white central pawns.
The design of this back game is to prove, how dangerous it is, when
two pawns stand on a front line in the centre, to advance one, before
your adversary offers to change. You should wait the offer, and then
the pawn may be pushed safely. If, even after you had incautiously
assailed the knight with your pawn, instead of pushing his queen’s and
his bishop’s pawn one square only, he had advanced either of them two
squares, offering to change, your centre would have remained safe.

=_Fifth Regular Party_=,

Variant from the First Party, on the Third Move of the Black;

WITH ONE BACK GAME,

    _On the Third Move of the Black_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The same.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.(a) ☜

(a) As, instead of this move, he might have played his queen to your
king’s rook’s fourth, it will be the subject of a back game.

                    4.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(b)
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(c)

                    5.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.(d)
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(e)

(b) He forces you to get out your king’s knight before your pawn; but
after repelling the attack, you may manœuvre to bring the pawn into
play. You might for the knight have substituted the queen; but she is
better at her home, because she enables you to advance, with effect,
the queen’s pawn upon his king’s bishop.

(c) He plays his knight with a view to hinder you from pushing your
queen’s pawn two squares, nevertheless this move may be ventured; as is
illustrated in another party.

(d) It is not always advantageous to push the pawns on the wings; as
the removal of the knight’s pawn, in particular, lays open the rook,
such a step must be taken cautiously.

(e) If he had advanced this pawn two squares, you must have pushed
yours upon his knight, according to the rule already prescribed, always
to advance the attacked pawn.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The same.

                    8.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The same.

                    9.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.(f)

                    10.
    W. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.

                    11.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.(g)

                    12.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king castles with his rook.(h)

                    13.
    W. The queen’s knight takes the bishop.
    B. The pawn takes the knight.

(f) Not being able to turn your king’s bishop’s action with his pawns,
he interposes his queen’s bishop.

(g) He might take with the pawn, and it would not be bad play.

(h) Had he castled on his queen’s side, he would have committed to you
the advantage of situation.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. The king’s knight at his queen’s bishop’s square.

                    15.
    W. The king castles with his rook.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    16.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.(i)
    B. The queen takes the pawn.(k)

(i) Had you not taken this pawn, he would have advanced it another move
upon your bishop, have dislodged him, and obtained an easy attack upon
your king’s wing with his pawns.

(k) Now, the pursuit of the white must be, to change the king’s
bishop’s pawn with the adverse king’s pawn, and that will turn the
advantage on his side.

BACK GAME,

    _On the Third Move of the Black_.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th.

                    4.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    5.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    6.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(a)
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.(b)

                    7.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(c)
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

(a) On this move, the king’s knight might be played to his bishop’s
third.

(b) If, instead of his queen’s retreating, his bishop had taken your
king’s bishop’s pawn, giving check, you must have taken his bishop with
your queen; and you would have gained a piece.

(c) The rook’s third square is not the best place for the knight, but
it is necessary in the present crisis.

                    8.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 3d.(d)

                    9.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the knight.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the bishop.

                    10.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.
    B. The queen’s bishop takes the knight.

                    11.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The same.(e)

(d) Had he withdrawn this knight, you must then have placed yours, now
attacked, at his bishop’s second square; and at the subsequent move,
have played your queen’s bishop to the king’s third, to take off the
adverse bishop.

(e) It is evident, that the white player has several moves over the
black. The black pieces have been engaged in a speculation which always
proves miscalculated against a good player. The queen, making the
premature attack has retreated, and she must again remove, to avoid the
approach of the adverse, and to make way for her own pawns.

=_Sixth Regular Party_=.

1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(a)

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(b)
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

(a) This way of opening the game, when you have not the move, is
entirely defensive, and therefore not to be adopted if any advantage
is granted; but commencing on equal terms, it is a good experiment on
strength of an adversary with whose skill you are unacquainted.

(b) On this move he might have forced you to play the gambit, by
pushing his king’s pawn two squares; and you could not take without
being exposed to a check from his queen. The train of moves, then
induced, would terminate in his favor, if he played critically correct.

                    4.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(c)
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.

                    5.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(d)

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.(e)

(c) You might have pushed your queen’s pawn two squares, in order to
change it with his queen’s bishop’s pawn, and this move would not be
amiss; but it would bring his king’s bishop to his queen’s bishop’s
fourth, where he would give great annoyance to your pieces, unless you
had your queen’s bishop to oppose him.

(d) He might have played his queen’s pawn one square; in that case,
you must have taken his pawn with yours, to hinder him from placing
his pieces on the side of his queen, correspondingly to those on your
king’s side.

(e) It would be bad play in him to take your pawn, as that would be
clearing the way for your queen’s knight; so it would be wrong for you
to take his pawn with yours, as that would present an advantageous post
to his king’s bishop.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her knight’s 3d.(f)

                    8.
    W. The queen at her 2d square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 2d.(g)

                    9.
    W. The queen’s pawn takes the queen’s bishop’s pawn.(h)
    B. The king’s bishop takes the pawn.

                    10.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.

(f) He attacks your queen’s knight’s pawn in order to induce you to
push it, but it is better to sustain it; for if it leaves its place, he
may, by pushing his queen’s rook’s pawn two squares, form a successful
attack on your left wing.

(g) Had he attacked your queen’s bishop with this knight, you must not
have suffered him to change piece for piece; but have withdrawn your
bishop, and forced his knight to retreat afterwards.

(h) As your queen’s knight cannot sally, without exposing you to the
risk, of having either a pawn doubled, or your queen forced, it is
necessary to take off his king’s bishop.

                    11.
    W. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 3d.(i)
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.(k)

                    12.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.(l)

                    13.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the king’s bishop’s pawn.(m)

(i) You play this knight that he may be in a course to co-operate with
your king’s knight at your queen’s fourth; the rook’s third is the best
post he can at present take. In general, it is essential to keep open a
free communication between the knights; as it is desirable to post them
on squares, where they can neither be attacked by pawns, nor forced by
other pieces to retreat.

(k) He pushes this pawn with a view to break your centre, and it would
be assisting his scheme to take it.

(l) His design is to make an opening for his king’s rook, and were he
allowed to push this pawn another square, he would force and break the
rear of your cordon of pawns.

(m) As your king’s knight, sustained by two pawns, may safely place
himself at his fifth square, so the adversary takes your pawn, that he
may procure for his knight a similar post.

                    14.
    W. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. King’s rook at its knight’s square.(n)

                    15.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.(o)

                    16.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    17.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 4th.(p)
    B. The king at his 2d square.

(n) He plays this rook, to secure the command of the file. Here is a
juncture at which a rook may well be sacrificed for another piece.
Supposing that you were not to close this line with your knight, he
would remove his rook to your king’s knight’s fourth square, where,
supported by two pawns, it could not be taken, without concentring his
pawns.

(o) He plays this knight with a design of procuring him as good a place
as yours now occupies.

(p) By this move you break the direction of his queen, and your two
knights are united to attack and take his knight’s pawn.

                    18.
    W. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.

                    19.
    W. The king castles with his rook.(q)
    B. Queen’s rook at its bishop’s square.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s rook at its bishop’s square.(r)

(q) It would be dangerous to castle on your left, because the adversary
might form an easy attack upon your king; besides, your king must
occupy his knight’s third square, in order to restrain the adverse
king’s knight, and in the mean while sustain your pawns.

(r) This is necessary to prevent him from making himself master of that
file, by changing his knight for yours, the consequence of which would
give him the game. The rooks are never to yield up the openings. At
present the game is even, except that the pawn advanced on the ground
of the black, may be said to give the white some little advantage.

The conduct of the regular parties is analytical, the most consummate
form of each taking the lead, from which the back games that branch,
are inferior either in the dexterity or the regularity of the moves.
By some of the back games it appears, that a player may commence his
investment of the adverse party in form, and yet, from the manner of
the play that is opposed to him, be diverted into irregularity. Again,
on the other hand it will appear, from some examples of the Salvio
Gambit, on which we are going to enter; that when one player meditates
a speedier circumvention than regularity of approach could effect;
defensive movements may be adopted by the other, of a systematic
character, the influence of which shall be so strong, as to impress, by
degrees, a conformity to method on the attitude of both sets of pieces.
At the same time, in practice it will be found, that a continual
recurrence to principle must modulate the movements of gambits, or they
will resemble the incursions of the Cossacks. The difficulty is, when
you attempt a _coup de main_ at Chess, to preserve such an arrangement,
that you may return to the progressive method, if obliged, without
taking lower ground than the adversary.

=_The Salvio Gambit_=.

FIRST PARTY,

WITH THREE BACK GAMES.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    6.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(a)

(a) DOCTOR SALVIO, in his Treatise, printed at Naples, in the year
1723, lays down this defence of the gambit, but without examining
thoroughly any combination; the great number of moves which arise and
succeed each other every instant in this party, very possibly may have
prevented him from analyzing and calculating the matter.

PHILIDOR can only mean, that SALVIO has not particularised any
combinations different from the step dictated, in collateral notes on
the play; though it is evident that he must have traced them, from his
ultimately fixing on the most complete defence.

                    7.
    W. The queen at her king’s square.(b) ☜
    B. The queen takes the queen.(c) ☜

                    8.
    W. The king takes the queen.
    B. The king’s knight takes the king’s pawn.(d) ☜

(b) The seventh move may be played different ways; two only however are
eligible: the first, to take the pawn with the bishop, and give check;
the other, to play the queen’s pawn two squares—pursued in two back
games.

(c) If, instead of taking your queen, he had pushed his king’s knight’s
pawn, you must have taken his king’s bishop’s pawn, giving check, and
then have played your knight to your king’s bishop’s third square.

(d) Had he pushed his queen’s pawn one square, instead of taking your
pawn with his knight; you must have taken his king’s bishop’s pawn with
your knight, and sacrificed the knight and bishop for two pawns and a
rook; the subject of a back game.

                    9.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn, and gives check.
    B. The king at his 2d square.(e)

                    10.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.(f)
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(g)

                    11.
    W. The queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.

(e) If he had moved his king to his queen’s square, it would have been
your game, to have drawn back your king’s bishop, in order to give
double check with your knight, or make him lose a turn.

(f) In this situation you must either win a pawn, or force the change
of his king’s rook for your knight.

(g) Had he pushed his queen’s pawn one move, it would have been proper
to have attacked his rook with your knight, and then to take his
queen’s pawn with the knight, leaving his rook exposed to your bishop.

                    12.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 3d.(h)
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.(i)

                    13.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    14.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s rook at his king’s square.(k)

(h) It would be bad play to attack his rook with your knight, who being
without a retreat, would at length be forced and taken.

(i) Being no longer able to sustain this pawn, he pushes it: you must
readily take it, because all pawns separated and advanced on your
ground must be lost.

(k) In this position the white party have this advantage, that their
pieces are disposed in better order; nevertheless, this manner of
playing the gambit is no ways advantageous against a player, to whom
a piece is granted; though this party, when played without odds, is a
very good one.

FIRST BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST PARTY,

    _On the Seventh Move of the White_.

                    7.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn and gives check.
    B. The king at his 2d square.(a)

                    8.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.(b)
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(c)

(a) SALVIO here directs the removal of the king to his queen’s square;
but, after the most exact calculations, I think it would be better to
play the king to his second square: that the reader may, however, judge
which is the preferable course, I exhibit both ways of playing, adding
a variation on the seventh move of the black.

(b) You are forced to withdraw the bishop, in order to avoid the loss
of a piece.

(c) If he had taken your king’s pawn with his knight, you must have
played your queen to your king’s square, to offer an exchange of
queens, which would restore your game to a firm state of defence; but
if, instead of pushing this pawn, he had played his knight to his
king’s rook’s fourth, you should have taken his king’s knight’s pawn
with your queen, permitting afterwards double check: then, by taking
his knight and sacrificing your rook, your situation from embarrassing
rises to advantageous.

                    9.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 3d.(d)
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 4th.

                    10.
    W. The queen at her king’s square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(e)

                    11.
    W. The king at his knight’s square.(f)
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.(g)

(d) This is a very bad retreat for your knight; but if you had attacked
his rook, your piece would have been forced. It is the adverse king,
played to his second square, on the seventh move, that has thrown your
game into so perplexing a situation.

(e Had he given double check with his knight, you) would have won a
piece by removing your king; and if he had exchanged queens, you would
have put an end to his attack.

(f) This move is very requisite, to disengage your king’s rook.

(g) If you were to take his pawn with yours, he would instantly give
you check-mate.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen at her king’s knight’s 4th.

                    13.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    14.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. The queen takes the bishop.

                    15.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn 1 square.(h)
    B. The queen at her king’s knight’s 3d.

                    16.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.(i)
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    17.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s square.(k)

(h) It is advisable to push this pawn; and not to take, which would
establish his king’s knight upon your ground.

(i) You thus prepare for bringing out the pieces of your left wing,
without being obliged to place your knight at his bishop’s third.

(k) In this position, though the black pieces have the advantage, yet
the game is not irrecoverably lost, because the white have still some
chance of succeeding in placing their pawns in the centre.

SUPPLEMENT

TO THE FIRST BACK GAME.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(a)

                    8.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 3d.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn and gives check.

                    10.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The queen gives check, &c. &c.(b)

(a) Had he taken your king’s pawn, you must have played your queen to
your king’s second.

(b) It is unnecessary to proceed; the variations of the first back game
recur, with the difference that you have one pawn less.

SECOND BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST PARTY,

    _On the Seventh Move of the Black_.

                    7.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn and gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.(a)

                    8.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(b)
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.(c)

(a) This creates no necessity of withdrawing your bishop as in the
first back game, so that remaining in advance, he may hinder the
adverse king’s knight from posting himself at his king’s rook’s fourth;
a move portending danger.

(b) Had you withdrawn your king’s bishop to attack the king and rook
with your knight, he would have played his knight to his king’s rook’s
fourth, and sacrificed his rook to win the game.

(c) There were two other ways for him to have played; the first, to
force your knight to retreat, by pushing his queen’s pawn upon him;
the other, to take your king’s pawn with his knight, in which case you
should offer an exchange of queens, by playing yours to your king’s
square.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(d)
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    11.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    12.
    W. The king at his knight’s square.(e)
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    13.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 4th.(f)

(d) Had you taken his pawn with yours, he would have won the game.

(e) If you had moved the king to his bishop’s second square, the black
would have won the game, by giving check with his king’s knight’s pawn,
and, at the next move, check with his king’s knight.

(f) This move forces his queen to retreat, and allows time to put
your game in a state of defence. If you could exchange queens, your
condition would be still better, for your pawns not only stand in the
centre, but are farther advanced than his.

Before the retreat of the queen, it will be proper for the gambit pawn
to take, giving check; that it may not be lost without compensation:
and the queen, on her retreat, must make such a demonstration by her
position as will effectually dislodge the bishop.

THIRD BACK GAME,

TO THE FIRST PARTY OF THE SALVIO GAMBIT,

    _On the Eighth Move of the Black_.

                    8.
    W. The king takes the queen.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.(a)

                    9.
    W. The king’s knight takes the king’s bishop’s pawn.
    B. The queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn.(b)
    B. The king’s knight takes the bishop.

(a) If instead of this, he had played his queen’s knight to his
bishop’s third, you must have taken his knight with yours, and
sustained your king’s pawn, by that of your queen.

(b) It is better to take his pawn, than to surrender your bishop to it,
because his rook still remains exposed.

                    11.
    W. The knight takes the rook.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(c)

                    12.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.

                    13.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(d)
    B. The bishop takes the knight.(e)

                    14.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. The knight at his queen’s 2d.(f)

(c) He might with his knight have attacked your queen’s bishop’s pawn,
which you would have defended with your queen’s knight.

(d) This move is necessary, because he could have taken your king’s
pawn by sacrificing his knight, and afterwards have taken your queen’s
knight’s pawn with his bishop.

(e) He could not have sustained the king’s or gambit pawn for more than
two or three moves.

(f) In this situation, it is better to advance the king under the
pawns, than to castle, and you will have then a better game than your
adversary.

=_Second Party_=

OF THE SALVIO GAMBIT,

WITH ONE BACK GAME,

    _On the Seventh Move of the White_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th square.(a)
    B. The queen gives check.

(a) You might castle at the fifth move, and suffer him to take your
knight; you then take his knight’s pawn with your queen, and depend for
reprisals on attacking his king’s bishop’s pawn. All your pieces would
easily get out, and before he could secure his king, it would be easy
for you to regain some advantage.

                    6.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(b) ☜
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(c)

                    8.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 3d.(d)
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

(b) If you had taken his king’s bishop’s pawn with your knight, he
would, by pushing his queen’s pawn two squares, have gained two pieces
for his king’s rook. As the same pawn might have been taken by the
bishop, and check given at the same time, it will form the subject of a
back game.

(c) Had he brought out his queen’s knight to his bishop’s third, you
must have taken his knight with yours, and then offered queen for queen
at your king’s square.

(d) Had you taken his king’s pawn with your knight, he would have left
his rook exposed, playing his king’s knight to his rook’s fourth, as a
prelude to a double attack on your king and rook, which would throw you
into a disagreeable situation.

                    9.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.(e)
    B. The queen gives check.

                    10.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. The queen gives check.

                    11.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king’s bishop gives check.

                    12.
    W. The king’s knight covers the check.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.(f)

                    13.
    W. The queen at its king’s bishop’s square.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

(e) Had you taken the pawn with yours, he would, by taking with his
king’s knight’s pawn, have opened the line for his queen’s bishop;
by which you would be exposed to the hazard of losing your queen, or
receiving check-mate.

(f) He plays this pawn to prevent his queen being forced. (See the
situation at the thirteenth move of the second back game of the first
gambit, volume the first.) And should he castle, or otherwise vary his
play, it would be your game to propose queen for queen, at your king’s
bishop’s square.

                    14.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the queen.
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.(g)

                    15.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    16.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(h)

(g) It was of consequence to withdraw his bishop, for by pushing your
king’s rook’s pawn two squares, you would have broken all his pawns.

(h) From this period the endeavour of each must be, to bring out the
pieces as soon as possible; but the white must persist in not taking
the king’s knight’s pawn with his rook’s pawn; and, though the black
have the advantage in numbers, by a pawn, the situation of the white
will then be preferable.

BACK GAME,

    _On the Seventh Move of the White_.

                    7.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the pawn, and gives check.
    B. The king at his 2d square.(a)

                    8.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(b)

                    9.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 4th.

(a) Had he withdrawn his king to his queen’s square, you should have
pushed your queen’s pawn to its extent, and you would have obtained a
firm position; but by this move, he dictates the retreat of your king’s
bishop, otherwise by pushing his queen’s pawn he would gain a piece.

(b) He had two other ways of playing; the one, to take your king’s pawn
with his knight, on which you play your queen to your king’s second
square, letting him give double check with his knight, that sacrificing
your rook for the knight, you might win the game. The other way would
be, to transport his king’s knight to his rook’s fourth, in which case
you ought to propose an exchange of queen’s at your king’s square.

                    10.
    W. The queen at her king’s square.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.(c)

                    11.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    12.
    W. The queen takes the pawn and gives check.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    13.
    W. The king’s knight takes the queen.(d)

(c) Had he given double check with his knight, you ought to have
withdrawn your king to his knight’s square, and then he would lose a
piece; and had he taken your queen, you ought to have taken with your
knight, to facilitate the bringing out your pieces.

(d) In the present situation the white seem to have the best of the
game.

=_Supplements to former Games_=.

SUPPLEMENT

To the First Gambit in the First Volume:

WITH TWO BACK GAMES;

    _On the Fifth Move of the Black, and the Sixth of the White_.

                    1.
    W. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(a) ☜
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    7.
    W. King’s knight at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king’s knight takes the king’s pawn.

                    8.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the pawn.(b)
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    9.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.(c)
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.

(a) You might have taken his king’s knight’s pawn with yours, but your
pieces would then have been too much entangled; nevertheless, I shall
make it the subject of a back game.

(b) At present he has the superiority over you of a pawn: but in
abatement of that advantage, it is to be observed, that the pawn which
should be foremost, being left behind, will remain useless till it
attain your king’s bishop’s fourth square.

(c) Let him have played what piece he would, you certainly should have
played as you have done, unless he had exposed some piece to be taken.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    11.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    12.
    W. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.(d)

                    13.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. The king castles with his rook.(e)
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

(d) His knight, which he arms with two pawns, you must forbear taking;
as it would unite his pawns in the centre, introducing his king’s
bishop’s pawn, now useless, to a post that would ensure him the game.

(e) It is better to castle on your right than on your left; because
your king will sustain the knight’s pawn, in case your adversary takes
your queen’s bishop.

                    15.
    W. The king at his rook’s 2d.
    B. The king castles.(f)

(f) The position of the two parties is nearly even. The white pieces
must carry all their disposable force against the adverse king’s
bishop’s pawn, in order to take it: the black, on the other hand,
must manœuvre to exchange the king’s knight, in order to unite their
pawns in the centre. It is apparent from this gambit, that it is not
advantageous to push the king’s rook’s pawn two squares, at the fourth
move.

FIRST BACK GAME,

    _On the Fifth Move of the Black_.

                    5.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(a)
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    7.
    W. The king’s knight takes the king’s knight’s pawn.
    B. The queen takes the king’s pawn, and gives check.

                    8.
    W. The queen covers the check.(b)

(a) Had you taken the exposed pawn with your knight, he would have
pushed his king’s bishop’s pawn upon your knight, forcing him to retire
to your king’s bishop’s second: he then, taking your king’s pawn with
that of his bishop, would have secured the advantage of position.

(b) In this situation you must exchange queens, as the most eligible
step; and afterwards take the gambit pawn. The two games are even. It
is easily seen, that this way of playing the gambit is neither of a
very interesting nature, nor affords the same after-games or numberless
variations that spring from Salvio’s gambits.

SECOND BACK GAME,

    _On the Sixth Move of the White_.

                    6.
    W. The king’s knight takes the knight’s pawn.(a)
    B. The king’s knight takes the king’s pawn.(b)

                    7.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. The same.(c)

(a) Had you played your king’s bishop to your queen’s bishop’s fourth,
attacking his king’s bishop’s pawn, he would have removed his queen to
her king’s second square, and rendered your position far from good.

(b) It would be bad play to take your knight with his.

(c) Though he defends his knight with his queen, he might without
danger have sustained him, by pushing his queen’s pawn two squares: in
which case you must have removed your king’s knight to his bishop’s
second.

                    8.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(d)
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.

                    9.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the queen.

                    10.
    W. King’s rook at its 2d square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.(e)

                    11.
    W. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 4th.

(d) You play the knight to hinder him from pushing his queen’s pawn two
squares; but if, contrary to your expectation, he should move the pawn
to its full extent, you may take it without danger.

(e) Had he played the knight to his king’s bishop’s fourth, you must
have attacked his king’s bishop with your queen’s knight, to procure
his removal; and if he had afterwards taken the rook’s pawn and given
check, you should have taken his bishop with your rook, to give check
with your queen’s knight.

                    13.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.(f)

(f) The game is nearly even: the gambit pawn will in time be taken, as
it is separated, and cannot be sustained, but by the pieces.

SUPPLEMENT

To the Third Party in the First Volume; the Black moving first.

WITH ONE BACK GAME,

_On the Seventh Move of the White_.

                    1.
    B. The king’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The same.

                    2.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    B. The queen’s pawn takes the king’s pawn.
    W. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    5.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(a)

(a) It is better to push this pawn the second square, than to expose
the queens, which would bring on a series of very puzzling moves;
whereas, on the mode intended to be pursued, whether he takes the
king’s pawn, or the king’s knight, you will find ways to defend
yourself.

                    6.
    B. Queen’s pawn moves to the adverse king’s 3d.
    W. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    7.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.(b) ☜

                    8.
    B. The king’s knight takes the pawn.
    W. The king’s bishop gives check.

                    9.
    B. The queen’s bishop covers the check.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    10.
    B. The queen’s knight takes the bishop.
    W. The king castles.(c)

(b) If you had sustained your queen’s pawn with that of your queen’s
bishop, you would have lost the game; but in this situation he cannot
take the pawn that is upon the file of your king, without losing in
return the one that is at your king’s third. There is yet another way
of playing, giving check with the king’s bishop: it will make the
subject of a back game.

(c) The pieces of the white seem to be the better placed.

BACK GAME,

    _On the Seventh Move of the White_.

                    7.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The king’s bishop gives check.

                    8.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.(a)
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn at the adverse king’s 3d.(b)

                    10.
    B. The queen’s rook’s pawn takes the bishop.
    W. The queen takes the knight.

                    11.
    B. The queen takes the pawn.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 4th.

(a) Had he covered the check with his queen’s bishop, you had been
enabled to take his king’s knight with your queen.

(b) If he take this pawn with his king’s bishop’s pawn, you take his
queen’s knight, giving check; and afterwards take his king’s knight
with your queen.

                    12.
    B. The queen at the adverse king’s 4th.(c)
    W. The pawn takes the king’s bishop’s pawn, and gives check.

                    13.
    B. The king takes the pawn.
    W. The queen gives check.

                    14.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn covers the check.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse queen’s 4th.

                    15.
    B. The queen takes the queen.
    W. The knight takes the queen.

                    16.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. The king’s knight takes the pawn.

                    17.
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

(c) Had he taken the pawn that is at his king’s third, and attacked
your queen, you must have taken his queen with your knight; and upon
the capture of your queen, your knight, by attacking the king and rook,
would have ensured the game.

                    18.
    B. King’s rook at its king’s square.
    W. The king castles.

The advantage of position inclines to the white party.

=_Practical Mates_=

AND

=_Ends of Parties_=.

METHOD

                  OF GIVING CHECK-MATE WITH A ROOK AND
                      A BISHOP AGAINST A ROOK.(a)

                       _Situation of the White._
                   The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
                The rook at its queen’s bishop’s square.
                 The bishop at the adverse king’s 4th.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                        The king at his square.
                      The rook at its queen’s 2d.

                    1.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The rook covers the check.

(a) In a former edition, I thought it would suffice to place the black
in that position, which was most favourable to a protracted defence:
but, as many lovers of the game desire to know the mode of forcing the
black into the position, here assigned to him, it will be displayed in
a subsequent example.

                    2.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s 2d.(b)

                    3.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.(c)
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s square.

                    4.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.(d)
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s square.(e) ☜

(b) He takes the situation most calculated to elude you. To give
check-mate, you must force your adversary to place his rook, either
at your queen’s square, or at your queen’s third square. In either
position, the game will be won, after a few computed moves.

(c) He is now obliged to play his rook to your queen’s square, or to
your queen’s third square.

(d) You have already forced him to play his rook to one of those
squares where he is in a course to lose: but this is not enough; for
your rook must not be farther from your king than the number of squares
which a knight passes at a move. If you were to play your rook to its
queen’s bishop’s second square, he would play his rook to your queen’s
second square; and you must be eternally recommencing: whereas, by
passing your rook on your right, he must, to parry the mate, play his
rook to your king’s bishop’s square, which is no better than that of
his queen.

                    5.
    W. The bishop at his king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.(f) ☜

                    6.
    W. The rook at its king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at his square.(g)

                    7.
    W. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s square.(h) ☜

                    8.
    W. The bishop at his king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

(e) As he might have played his king to his bishop’s square, we will
make it the subject of a back-game.

(f) He could have played his rook to your king’s bishop’s third: the
subject of another back-game.

(g) He brings back his king to form an interval, for his rook to cover
the check of your rook.

(h) He might have played the king to his bishop’s square: the subject
of the last back-game.

                    9.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    10.
    W. The bishop covers the check.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

                    11.
    W. The rook at its king’s rook’s 4th square, and must win.

FIRST BACK GAME,

    _On the Fourth Move of the Black_.

                    4.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    5.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d.(a)
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s square.

                    6.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.(b)
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

(a) You force him, by this move, to play his rook to your king’s
knight’s square, to parry the mate; which will give you his rook
gratuitously.

(b) You leave him no other way to ward the mate, than playing his king
to his knight’s square; for, if he check with his rook, you preserve
your attack impending in undiminished force over him, by covering with
your bishop.

                    7.
    W. The rook gives check, at the adverse queen’s bishop’s square.
    B. The king at his rook’s 2d.

                    8.
    W. The rook gives check at the adverse king’s rook’s square,
       and must win.

SECOND BACK GAME,

    _On the Fifth Move of the Black_.

                    5.
    W. The bishop at his king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. The bishop at the adverse queen’s 3d.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    7.
    W. The bishop covers the check.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.(a)

                    8.
    W. The rook gives check at the adverse king’s 2d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.(b)

                    9.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

(a) If he had moved his king to his bishop’s square, you would have
played your rook to his king’s rook’s second, in order to give mate the
next move.

(b) If he had moved his king to his queen’s square, you must have
played your rook to his queen’s knight’s second, in order to give mate
the next move.

                    10.
    W. The rook gives check at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.(c)

                    11.
    W. The rook at its king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at his square.(d)

                    12.
    W. The bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th, and must win the game.

(c) If he had played his king to his rook’s square, you would have won
his rook, giving check by discovery.

(d) If he had played his rook to your king’s third, to prevent the
check of your bishop; you must have played your rook to your king’s
rook’s fourth, in order to give mate the next move.

THIRD BACK GAME,

    _On the Seventh Move of the Black_.

                    7.
    W. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    8.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

                    9.
    W. The rook at its king’s rook’s 4th, and must win the game.

METHOD

                    OF FORCING THE BLACK TO TAKE THE
                  POSITION ABOVE ASSIGNED, IN ORDER TO
                    GIVE MATE WITH A ROOK AND BISHOP
                            AGAINST A ROOK.

_Situation of the White._
                      The king at his 4th square.
                  The bishop at his king’s 3d square.
                   The rook at its queen’s rook’s 2d.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                       The king at his 3d square.
                   The rook at its queen’s 2d square.

                    1.
    W. The rook at its queen’s knight’s 2d.(a)
    B. The rook at its queen’s square.

                    2.
    W. The bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th.(b)
    B. The rook at its king’s square.

(a) If you had checked with your rook, he would have covered with his;
but he is now obliged to retract his rook, which enables you to employ
your bishop.

(b) This prevents his rook from covering the check from yours, so that
you may force his king to retrograde.

                    3.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.

                    4.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s 2d.

                    5.
    W. The rook at its queen’s knight’s square.(c)
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    6.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.(d)

(c) This move is material, in order to employ your bishop as above
directed; that is, to debar his rook from covering the check, which you
will give with yours.

(d) If he had moved the king to his square, you must then have advanced
your king to the face of his king, and left your bishop exposed. The
whole difficulty consists in placing your bishop at the adverse king’s
fourth. Your adversary’s manœuvre to prevent it, will be, leaving his
king inactive, and playing his rook, alternately, from the second to
the first square of your king’s bishop.

                    7.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The king at his square.(e) ☜

                    8.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The rook at its king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    9.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    10.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s square.

                    11.
    W. The rook gives check, at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The king at his square.

                    12.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d, and finds himself
       in the position above assigned.

(e) Had he given you check with his rook, you must have played your
king to the adverse queen’s fourth, which would have given your bishop
the necessary liberty. The adversary could have likewise played his
king to his knight’s square, which will be made the subject of a back
game.

BACK GAME,

    _On the Seventh Move of the Black_.

                    7.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

                    8.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The rook at its king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    9.
    W. The rook at its queen’s knight’s square.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    10.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.

                    11.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his knight’s 3d.

                    12.
    W. The rook gives check at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The king at his rook’s 3d.

                    13.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s 2d.

                    14.
    W. The rook at its king’s knight’s square.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    15.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his rook’s 4th.

                    16.
    W. The rook gives check at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at his rook’s 3d.

                    17.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    18.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    19.
    W. The bishop covers the check.
    B. The rook at its queen’s 2d.

                    20.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s square.
    B. The king at his rook’s 4th.

                    21.
    W. The rook at its queen’s knight’s 4th,
       and will give check-mate the next move.

It may be seen by this back-game, that when the pieces do not exactly
stand in the situation before assigned, there may be various ways to
force the mate: but a circumstance that cannot be dispensed with, is,
that the bishop must stand on a diagonal that runs close to his king,
to cover him in case of a check.

METHOD
                   OF GIVING CHECK-MATE WITH A KNIGHT
                             AND A BISHOP.

                     _Situation of the White._
                      The king at his 4th square.
                   The queen’s knight at his square.
                    The king’s bishop at his square.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                      The king at his bishop’s 3d.

                    1.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.(a)
    B. The king at his knight’s 3d.

                    2.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 3d.

(a) The mate must be given in the corner which is of the colour on
which the bishop moves; and when the adverse king retires to the
corner, differently coloured, the stroke is effected, by a gradual
process of eighteen or twenty moves.

                    3.
    W. The knight at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his knight’s 3d.

                    4.
    W. The knight at his king’s 4th.(b)
    B. The king at his rook’s 3d.

                    5.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his rook’s 2d.(c)

                    6.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.(d)

                    7.
    W. The knight at the adverse queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his rook’s 2d.

(b) The office of the knight is, to exclude the adverse king from the
squares which are out of the bishop’s field.

(c) If he had played his king to his rook’s fourth, you must have given
check with the bishop at your king’s second; and should he then pass
his king to that quarter of the board which has a corner square of your
bishop’s colour, you will mate him in a few moves.

(d) If he had moved to his rook’s third, you must have played your
bishop to your king’s second, to oblige his king to seek shelter in the
black angle, whence your knight will soon dislodge him.

                    8.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.(e)
    B. The king at his knight’s square.(f)

                    9.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    10.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The king at his square.

                    11.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.(g) ☜

                    12.
    W. The knight gives check at the adverse queen’s 2d.
    B. The king at his square.

(e) From this position, the mate is forced in about eighteen or twenty
moves.

(f) The knight prevents his king from returning to the corner. Your
object is, to exclude him with the knight from the black squares, and
with the bishop from the white ones.

(g) He might have played his king to his queen’s square; which is
traced to its consequences in a back game.

                    13.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    14.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his square.

                    15.
    W. The bishop gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    16.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s square.

                    17.
    W. The knight at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    18.
    W. The knight gives check at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop square.

                    19.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    20.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s square.

                    21.
    W. The bishop gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    22.
    W. The bishop at the adverse queen’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s rook’s square.

                    23.
    W. The knight at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    24.
    W. The knight gives check at the adverse queen’s rook’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s rook’s square.

                    25.
    W. The bishop gives check-mate.

BACK GAME,

    _On the Eleventh Move of the Black_.

                    11.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    12.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    13.
    W. The knight at the adverse queen’s 2d.(a)
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s 3d.(b)
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    15.
    W. The bishop at his king’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    16.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his square.

(a) It is to be observed, that the knight does not change the direction
of his moves, whether the black player adopt the course of the game or
the back game.

(b) If you had given check with your bishop, he would have passed his
king into the other corner; and your attack would have been eluded.

                    17.
    W. The bishop gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    18.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s square.

                    19.
    W. The knight at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.(c)

(c) It is needless to proceed. The position induced by the back game,
is that of the seventeenth move of the game.

A PARTY,

WON WITH A ROOK AND A PAWN AGAINST A BISHOP.

_Situation of the White._
                      The king at his 4th square.
                  The queen’s pawn at the queen’s 4th.
                    The rook at its queen’s square.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                       The king at his 3d square.
             The king’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    1.
    W. The rook at its queen’s rook’s square.(a)
    B. The bishop at his queen’s knight’s square.

                    2.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The bishop covers the check.(b)

(a) If you had pushed your pawn, to give check, you would have
furnished the adversary with the means of making a drawn game, as will
be seen afterwards.

(b) If he had withdrawn his king, you must have protruded yours to the
van of your pawn. This party is to be won, only by advancing your king,
and confining that of your adversary to the last rank, previously to
pushing the pawn.

                    3.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.(c)
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.

                    4.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th.
    B. The bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.

                    5.
    W. The rook gives check at the adverse queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The bishop covers the check.

                    6.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s square.

                    7.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.(d)

(c) This move imposes on him a necessity of retracting his king, and
resigning the field to yours.

(d) In this position the game is won, either by pushing the pawn to
queen, or forcing the adverse bishop.

A DRAWN GAME,

WITH A ROOK AND A PAWN AGAINST A BISHOP.

                     _Situation of the White._
                      The king at his 4th square.
                  The queen’s pawn at the queen’s 4th.
                    The rook at its queen’s square.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                       The king at his 3d square.
             The king’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    1.
    W. The pawn gives check.(a)
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.

                    2.
    W. The king at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.

(a) The result from this movement must be a drawn game, because your
king cannot recover the opportunity of advancing before your pawn,
supposing your adversary to play with critical precision.

                    3.
    W. The rook at its queen’s rook’s square.
    B. The bishop at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.(b)

                    4.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s 3d.(c)

                    5.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.(d)

(b) It is material for him to keep his bishop at a distance from your
king, to enable him to give check, should you play the king to one of
the black squares next to your pawn.

(c) If he had covered the check, you would have won the game, by
pushing your king forwards to the black square facing his bishop.

(d) If he had played his bishop to your king’s rook’s second, you would
have won the game, by playing your rook to his king’s knight’s second.
It is to be observed, that, in the defence of this party, the bishop,
while he is so distant as to secure himself from capture, must be ready
to step into a diagonal that bears on the adverse king.

                    6.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The bishop at the adverse king’s square, in readiness to check.

                    7.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.

                    8.
    W. The pawn 1 square.(e)
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.(f)

                    9.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The bishop at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.(g)

                    10.
    W. The pawn 1 square, discovering check from the rook.
    B. The king takes the pawn.

(e) Had you advanced the king, he would have obliged you to retrograde,
by a check from his bishop.

(f) Any other movement would have occasioned him the loss of the game.

(g) In this position your pawn is forced; as your king cannot proceed,
without intercepting the communication between the pawn and the rook.

                    11.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.(h)

(h) When a player has a bishop against a rook, he must as soon as
possible station his king on a corner square of the chess-board, of a
different colour from the field of the bishop. It is the only place
where he can insure a drawn game.

METHOD

OF GIVING CHECK-MATE WITH A SINGLE ROOK.

                     _Situation of the White._
                      The king at his 4th square.
                 The rook at its king’s rook’s square.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                       The king at his 3d square.

                    1.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    2.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 4th square.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d square.(a)

(a) His king must be opposite to yours, previously to each time of your
giving check with your rook; because his king is then forced, by the
check, to retrograde.

                    3.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.(b)
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    4.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    5.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s rook’s 2d.

                    6.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d.(c)

                    7.
    W. The rook gives check, at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s square.

(b) If you had played your king opposite to his, he would have restored
his king to its previous place; whereas, should he on this move play
his king to the face of yours, you may force him back by the check of
your rook.

(c) In the present case he is obliged to place his king opposite to
yours, or absolutely to abandon the rank.

                    8.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    9.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The king at his square.

                    10.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    11.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

                    12.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.

                    13.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

                    14.
    W. The rook gives check-mate.

There is another mode of giving check-mate with a rook, which may be
practised with great facility, and which will, in general, be found
more summary than that which has been exhibited. A description of it,
sufficiently intelligible, may be conveyed to the player, without a
notation of the moves. The principle of it, is, to confine the adverse
king in a square, two sides of which are formed by the extremities of
the board, and two sides by two impassable lines, running from the
station of the rook. This station must, at the commencement, prescribe
all possible limitation; and the square you continually abridge, by the
progression of the rook, supported by the king. When the adverse king
is reduced to an area of four squares, it will be proper to suspend the
action of the rook, leaving him in the great diagonal, on the third
square from the corner. The interim will be employed in seating your
own king on the third square of the rank or the file. This completes
the preparation for check-mate.

CONCLUSION OF A PARTY,

WON BY THE QUEEN AGAINST A ROOK AND A PAWN.

_Situation of the White._
                     The king at his bishop’s 4th.
                      The queen at her 3d square.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                       The king at his 2d square.
                      The rook at its king’s 4th.
                 The queen’s pawn at the queen’s 3d.(a)

                    1.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d.(b)
    B. The king at his 3d square.

(a) This party is a drawn game, when the pawn has not been moved from
its place; but, in the event of its having been advanced, the queen
must win.

(b) His defence depends entirely upon not letting your king pass, and
in meditation of the intended obstruction, playing his rook alternately
from the queen’s bishop’s fourth to the king’s fourth, being always
supported by his pawn.

                    2.
    W. The queen gives check, at the adverse king’s knight’s square.(c)
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    3.
    W. The queen at the adverse queen’s bishop’s square.
    B. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    4.
    W. The queen gives check, at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The king at his 3d square.

                    5.
    W. The queen at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The rook at its king’s 4th.

                    6.
    W. The queen at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.(d)
    B. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 4th.

(c) This move is superfluous and unavailing; and I adopt it, only to
shew, by what trivial means turns may be gained or lost.

(d) This move lays a certain foundation for a decision in your favour;
you must, therefore, at the second move of the queen, take this
position.

                    7.
    W. The queen at the adverse queen’s square.
    B. The rook at its king’s 4th.

                    8.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s square.(e)
    B. The king at his queen’s 4th.

                    9.
    W. The queen at the adverse queen’s bishop’s square.(f)
    B. The rook gives check.(g) ☜

                    10.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The rook gives check.

(e) This check forces his king to occupy the same file with his pawn;
this will be a great facility to your own king, in passing.

(f) You place him under the dilemma of removing his rook from his king,
or giving a free passage to yours.

(g) If he had played his king to your queen’s fourth, you must have
played your queen to his queen’s bishop’s third. He might also have
played his rook to his king’s rook’s fourth, to hinder the passage of
your king; the movements which you should then adopt, are exhibited in
the first back game.

                    11.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s 4th.(h)

                    12.
    W. The queen gives check, at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The rook covers the check.

                    13.
    W. The queen gives check at her 3d square.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    14.
    W. The queen at her 2d square.(i)
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    15.
    W. The queen at her 4th square.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.(k) ☜

(h) If here, too, he had played his king to your queen’s fourth, you
must have played your queen to his queen’s bishop’s third.

(i) At the instant your king gets in the rear of his pawn, the
advantage of the game will turn on your side: to attain this, you must
force him to play his king.

(k) He could have played his king to his queen’s bishop’s second
square. This course is pursued in the second back game.

                    16.
    W. The queen at her bishop’s 4th.
    B. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 4th.(l)

                    17.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    18.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 2d.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    19.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s square.
    B. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    20.
    W. The queen gives check, at the adverse queen’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s 4th.

                    21.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 2d.
    B. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 3d.

(l) If he had detached his rook from his king, the object of your play
must have been to force his rook, by a divergent check.

                    22.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    23.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 2d.
    B. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    24.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s 4th square, and must win.

The termination of this party, regularly conducted from this move,
may be seen in p. 160.—As many amateurs may not be acquainted with
the method of giving check-mate with a queen against a rook, the
opportunity which the state of the board presents for exhibiting that
operation is embraced. It may be pursued in immediate continuation, by
suspending the back games.

FIRST BACK GAME,

    _On the Ninth Move of the Black_.

                    9.
    W. The queen at the adverse queen’s bishop’s square.
    B. The rook at its king’s rook’s 4th.(a)

                    10.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse queen’s rook’s square.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    11.
    W. The queen gives check at her rook’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    12.
    W. The queen gives check at her rook’s 3d.
    B. The king where he pleases, his pawn being lost.(b)

(a) His rook being distant from its king, allows you to take it by a
divergent check, or at least to take his pawn.

(b) This back game shews the facility with which a queen may force a
rook, when detached from its king.

SECOND BACK GAME,

    _On the Fifteenth Move of the Black_.

                    15.
    W. The queen at her 4th square.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    16.
    W. The queen at her rook’s 4th.
    B. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    17.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    18.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 2d square, and must win.(a)

(a) The ability of the king to manœuvre behind the pawn, commands the
event of the game.

CHECK-MATE,

BY THE QUEEN AGAINST A ROOK,

_Being a Continuation of the Party in Page 157_.

                    24.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    25.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    26.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th.(a)
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    27.
    W. The king at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s rook’s square.(b)

                    28.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d square.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.

(a) It is unavailing to give check with your queen, before your king
has approached the adverse king.

(b) He offers you his rook for nothing: but, if you take it, he will be
stale-mate.

                    29.
    W. The queen gives check at her rook’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s square.

                    30.
    W. The queen at her rook’s 3d.
    B. The rook gives check at the adverse queen’s 2d.(c)

                    31.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The rook gives check at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    32.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.(d)
    B. The rook gives check at the adverse queen’s 2d.

(c) Your last move was by no means tactical. The queen should have
remained on the fourth square from the corner. The move was made merely
to shew the game which might then be played by your adversary. If you
were to take his rook, he would be stale-mate. This cannot be too much
attended to at the end of this party.

(d) Had you played your king to your queen’s knight’s third, he would
have made a drawn game, by giving you check at your queen’s bishop’s
third.

                    33.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    34.
    W. The queen at her rook’s 4th.(e)
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    35.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    36.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.(f)
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d.

                    37.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s rook’s square.

(e) Your king may now invest the adversary, by a near approach, without
any danger of making him stale-mate.

(f) He is obliged to remove his rook from his king, which gives you an
opportunity of taking his rook by a divergent check, or making him mate.

                    38.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse queen’s rook’s 3d.
    B. The king at the knight’s square.(g)

                    39.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s rook’s 2d.

                    40.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The king at the knight’s square.

                    41.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s knight’s square,
       and must win.(h)

(g) If he had covered the check, you would have given mate at your
queen’s bishop’s square.

(h) This party can be won only by forcing the adversary to detach his
rook, in order to ensure its fall, by a divergent check.

A DRAWN GAME,

WITH THE QUEEN AGAINST A ROOK AND A PAWN.

                     _Situation of the White._
                  The king at the adverse queen’s 4th.
                     The queen at her knight’s 3d.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                    The king at his queen’s square.
                    The queen’s pawn at its square.
                       The rook at its king’s 3d.

                    1.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse queen’s knight’s square.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    2.
    W. The queen at the adverse king’s knight’s square.
    B. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    3.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The rook at its king’s 3d, giving check.

                    4.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th square.(a)

(a) In this position it is a drawn game; because neither the queen, nor
the king, can come upon the rear of the black pawn, as in the former
party.

A DRAWN GAME,

WITH A ROOK AND A PAWN AGAINST A ROOK;

Or LOST GAME,

IF THE PLAYER HAVING ONLY A ROOK PLAY ILL.

                     _Situation of the White._
              The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
                      The pawn at its king’s 4th.
               The rook at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                        The king at his square.
                   The rook at its queen’s rook’s 3d.

                    1.
    W. The pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook at its queen’s knight’s 3d.(a) ☜

(a) By commanding the third rank with his rook, he hinders your king
from advancing; if he were to desert that rank before you had pushed
your pawn, he would lose the party, as will be seen by a back game.

                    2.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 3d.(b)

                    3.
    W. The pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s square.(c)

                    4.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The rook gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s square.(d)

(b) He ought not to move his rook from this line, until at the instant
of your pushing the pawn.

(c) If he had given check, he would have lost the game.

(d) And he must give you perpetual check, unless you will be induced to
detach your king from your pawn: and if, in adopting that course, you
enfilade obliquely from his successive checks, toward his rook, he will
transport his rook, at the moment of its being reached by your king, so
as to ensure the fall of your pawn.—If your king retires upon your own
rook, he will change rooks.

VARIANT GAME,

ON THE FIRST MOVE OF THE BLACK, WHEN A ROOK AND A PAWN WIN AGAINST A
ROOK.

                    1.
    W. The pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s rook’s square.

                    2.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.(a)
    B. The rook gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s square.(b)

                    3.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.(c)

(a) If you had placed your king opposite his, he could have regained
the opportunity of making a drawn game, by giving check with his rook.

(b) Had he given check at his queen’s rook’s third, you must have
covered check with your pawn: and had he removed his king to his
queen’s square, you must have given check with your rook, afterwards
playing your king to the adverse king’s second square.

(c) Had he left his king unmoved, you must have given check, and
changed rook for rook.

                    4.
    W. The rook gives check.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.

                    5.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s square.(d)
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s square.

                    6.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 2d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.(e)

                    7.
    W. The pawn 1 square, giving check.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.(f)

                    8.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 2d.(g)
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s 2d.

                    9.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s square.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s square.

(d) This is the only move which can ensure victory: every other leads
but to a drawn game.

(e) Had he given check, you must have played your king to the adverse
king’s second.

(f) Had he played his king to his bishop’s third, you must have given
check with your rook, and at the next move pushed your pawn.

(g) Had you pushed your pawn, it would have been a drawn game.

                    10.
    W. The rook at its queen’s 2d.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s 3d.

                    11.
    W. The rook gives check at its king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The king at his rook’s 2d.

                    12.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    13.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s square.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. The pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s 3d.(h)

                    15.
    W. The rook at its queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The queen at his knight’s 2d.

(h) He plays thus, in order to hinder your king from moving out on the
queen’s side of the board, and to bring him, by a check, again under
your pawn, in case he move out on the king’s side.

                    16.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.(i)
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s 2d.

                    17.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s 2d.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    18.
    W. The rook at its queen’s square.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    19.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s 2d.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    20.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The rook gives check.

                    21.
    W. The rook covers the check.
    B. The rook at its queen’s knight’s square.

                    22.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s square, and will win.

(i) As in England, the stale-mate is the loss of the game, you might,
at this move, play your rook to your queen’s second.

A DRAWN GAME,

WITH A QUEEN, AND A PAWN, AGAINST A QUEEN.

                     _Situation of the White._
              The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
              The pawn at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
                      The queen at her 3d square.

                     _Situation of the Black._
             The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.
                     The queen at her bishop’s 4th.

                    1.
    W. The pawn 1 square.(a)
    B. The queen gives check at her king’s knight’s 4th.

                    2.
    W. The queen covers the check.
    B. The queen gives check at her king’s 4th.

(a) In this position, the white should seek an opportunity of changing
queen for queen: the black should keep the king at a distance from the
adverse king, in order to prevent that exchange, and to be the better
enabled to give perpetual check.

                    3.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s square.(b)
    B. The queen at her 4th square.

                    4.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s rook’s square.

                    5.
    W. The queen covers the check.
    B. The queen gives check, at the adverse king’s 4th.

                    6.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s square.
    B. The queen gives check, at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    7.
    W. The queen covers the check.
    B. The queen at her king’s 3d.(c)

(b) He cannot, in this position, give check, without losing the game;
but he may hinder your pawn from making a queen.

(c) It is plain, that, when the checking intermits, such a position may
be taken as to prevent the pawn from making a queen.

A GAME WON

BY A QUEEN, AGAINST A PAWN NEAR MAKING A QUEEN.

                     _Situation of the White._
              The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.
           The queen at the adverse queen’s bishop’s square.

                     _Situation of the Black._
              The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.
                   The pawn at the adverse king’s 2d.

                    1.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.(a)
    B. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.

                    2.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.

(a) To win this game, the queen must be previously brought, as near as
possible, to the adverse king.

                    3.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.

                    4.
    W. The queen at her king’s 3d.(b)
    B. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s square.

                    5.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s square.(c)

                    6.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s 2d.

                    7.
    W. The queen gives check at the adverse queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.

(b) It is this move which enables you to win the game, because you
force him to play his king under his pawn.

(c) As his pawn cannot make a queen, you must employ the interval in
which your queen is inactive, in bringing your king in proximity to his.

                    8.
    W. The queen gives check at her bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s 2d.

                    9.
    W. The queen gives check at her 4th square.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    10.
    W. The queen at her king’s 3d.(d)
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s square.

                    11.
    W. The queen gives check at her 3d square.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s square.

                    12.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th.(e)

(d) It is uniformly the same move which forces him to play his king
under his pawn.

(e) You will proceed with a reiteration of the same moves, till your
king is seated close to his pawn, and then the game is won.

A DRAWN GAME,

WITH A QUEEN AGAINST A PAWN NEAR MAKING A QUEEN.

                     _Situation of the White._
                 The king at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
                      The queen at her king’s 2d.

                     _Situation of the Black._
            The king at the adverse king’s knight’s square.
              The pawn at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    1.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d.

                    2.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s square.

                    3.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s rook’s square.(a)

(a) In the former party, you forced his king to come under his pawn:
but he may now, without risk, leave it exposed to be taken; for you
would make a stale-mate by taking it: this ought then to be a drawn
game.

ANOTHER DRAWN GAME,

WITH A QUEEN AGAINST A PAWN NEAR MAKING A QUEEN.

                     _Situation of the White._
                 The king at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
                      The queen at her 4th square.

                     _Situation of the Black._
              The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
               The pawn at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d.

                    1.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    2.
    W. The queen at her king’s rook’s 3d.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s square.

                    3.
    W. The queen gives check at her king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at the rook’s square.(a)

(a) Being continually forced to remove your queen from that file, to
make room for his king, you could never bring up your king in time: so
it must be a drawn game.

It is to be observed, that the pawns of the two bishops, and of the two
rooks, at one square from promotion, make a drawn game against a queen;
and the pawns of the king, and the queen, and of the two knights, lose
in such a position.

A DRAWN GAME,

WITH A SINGLE PAWN;

Or A GAME WON,

IF HE WHO DIRECTS THE UNACCOMPANIED KING SHOULD NOT PLAY WELL.

                     _Situation of the White._
                     The king at his bishop’s 4th.
              The pawn at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                      The king at his bishop’s 3d.

                    1.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.(a)

                    2.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

(a) It is necessary to bring his king alternately to the face of the
adverse pawn, and alternately to the face of the adverse king, in order
to oppose the promotion of the pawn.

                    3.
    W. The pawn 1 square, giving check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.

                    4.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.(b) ☜

                    5.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The king at his square.(c)

                    6.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.(d)

(b) If he had removed his king to his square, or to the knight’s
square, he would have lost the game. The subject of a back game.

(c) Were you in the present position to push your pawn, you could not
sustain it without making a stale-mate.

(d) His defence depends upon opposing his king to yours; if, on the
other hand, the possession of the move enabled you to oppose your king
to his, you would win the game.

                    7.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.(e)

                    8.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

                    9.
    W. The pawn 1 square, giving check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    10.
    W. The king is forced to desert the pawn.

(e) He places his king in that alternate opposition to your pieces,
which infallibly brings on a drawn game.

BACK GAME,

    _On the Fourth Move of the Black_.

                    4.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his square, or at the knight’s square.

                    5.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    6.
    W. The pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.

                   7.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 2d, and will win.

It may be seen by these examples, that the unaccompanied king, to make
a good defence, must, at the last stage of his retreat, refuse to move
from before the adversary’s pawn.

A DRAWN GAME,

BY A KNIGHT DISTANT FROM HIS KING, AGAINST A PAWN ADVANCING TO
PROMOTION.

                     _Situation of the White._
                       The king at his rook’s 2d.
                  The knight at his queen’s rook’s 2d.

                     _Situation of the Black._
              The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.
               The pawn at the adverse queen’s rook’s 3d.

                    1.
    W. The knight gives check at his queen’s bishop’s square.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    2.
    W. The knight gives check at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    3.
    W. The knight at his queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    4.
    W. The knight at his queen’s 3d.(a)

(a) He cannot push his pawn, without receiving a divergent check from
your knight; therefore it is a drawn game. It is important to observe,
that in positions, when the knight can neither check, nor hinder the
pawn from advancing, a divergent check will be in his power, if the
pawn be advanced.

A DRAWN GAME,

WITH TWO PAWNS AGAINST ONE;

Or A PARTY WON,

IF THE PLAYER WITH THE SINGLE PAWN MISMOVE.

                     _Situation of the White._
                      The king at his 4th square.
             The king’s bishop’s pawn at its bishop’s 4th.
             The king’s knight’s pawn at its knight’s 5th.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                       The king at his 3d square.
            The king’s knight’s pawn at its knight’s 3d.(a)

                    1.
    W. The king at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s 3d.(b) ☜

(a) Before we proceed, let us review the board at the stage at which we
find the game. If the black pieces were to play first, the white would
win; but the white party having to commence, it will be a drawn game.

(b) Had he played his king to his king’s bishop’s fourth square, you
would have regained the move; which would have been the earnest of
victory. The subject of a back game.

                    2.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.(c)

                    3.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king at his 2d square.(d) ☜

                    4.
    W. The king at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s 3d.

                    5.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The king at his 3d square.(e)

(c) Had he played his king to his queen’s fourth, he would have lost
the game. The subject of the second back game.

(d) By refusing to advance from his eligible station, he is enabled to
oppose your king, whether you chuse to place him at his own fourth, or
at your queen’s fourth.

(e) This is the identical position at which we commenced. Supposing the
future moves of the adversary to be correctly made, no variation in
your course can prevent it from being a drawn game.

FIRST BACK GAME,

    _On the First Move of the Black_.

                    1.
    W. The king at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 4th.

                    2.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king at his 3d square.(a)

                    3.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The king at his queen’s 3d.(b)

                    4.
    W. The bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.(c)

                    5.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

(a) Had he removed his king to your king’s knight’s fourth, he would
lose the game, equally as he will by the present course.

(b) Had he played his king to his second square, or to his queen’s
second, you must have advanced your king opposite his, to effect the
capture of his pawn.

(c) He could have declined taking your pawn; a mode of play that is
pursued in the second back game.

                    6.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    7.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d, and must win.(d)

(d) As often as the king can move in the van of a single pawn, the
adversary cannot hinder you from making a queen.

SECOND BACK GAME,

    _On the Second Move of the Black_.

                    2.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s 4th.

                    3.
    W. The king at his 3d square.(a)
    B. The king at his 3d square.

                    4.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The king at his queen’s 3d.(b)

                    5.
    W. The bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

(a) You again get the move, because he cannot play his king fronting
yours: he must absolutely retrograde either to his third square, or to
his queen’s third square. In either case, your king may place himself
in opposition to his.

(b) If he had withdrawn his king to his second square, or to his
queen’s second, you must have advanced your king opposite his.

                    6.
    W. The pawn 1 square, giving check.(c)
    B. The king at his 3d square.

                    7.
    W. The king at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s 3d.(d)

                    8.
    W. The bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    9.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The king takes the pawn.

                    10.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    11.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 3d.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.

(c) Had you taken his pawn with yours, it would have been a drawn game.

(d) By this step he has regained the move, since he may oppose king to
king; but by the sacrifice of a pawn you may recover it over him, and a
single pawn is enough to win the game.

                    12.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s 2d.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

                    13.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his rook’s 2d.

                    14.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.

                    15.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

                    16.
    W. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    17.
    W. The pawn 1 square, and makes a queen without opposition.

A DRAWN GAME,

WITH TWO SEPARATED PAWNS, AGAINST TWO UNITED PAWNS.

                     _Situation of the White._
                      The king at his queen’s 3d.
             The queen’s bishop’s pawn at its bishop’s 5th.
             The queen’s knight’s pawn at its knight’s 4th.

                     _Situation of the Black._
                      The king at his queen’s 4th.
             The queen’s knight’s pawn at its knight’s 4th.
            The king’s knight’s pawn at its knight’s 4th.(a)

                    1.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king at his 4th square.

                    2.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 4th.

(a) From this position, if the black were to commence play, the white
would win the game.

                    3.
    W. The king at his knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at his 4th square.(b)

                    4.
    W. The king at his knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 3d.

                    5.
    W. The king at his knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at his 4th square.(c)

                    6.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 4th.(d)

(b) Had he played his king to his bishop’s third, you would have
advanced your king towards his pawn, and he would have lost the game.

(c) Had he played his king to his bishop’s fourth, you would have
recovered the move; and the move, at these critical junctures, is the
game.

(d) As he does not advance his pawn, nor suffer your king to take the
place opposite to his, it must be a drawn game.

OBSERVATIONS

ON THE ENDS OF PARTIES, AND

_ON THE POWERS OF PIECES_ VARIOUSLY COMBINED.

A single pawn cannot win, if the adverse king be placed in opposition
to it.

A single pawn may win, if the king be placed in the van of his pawn.

Two pawns against one must win, almost in all cases: but he that has
the two pawns, must avoid changing one of them with the adversary’s
pawn.

A pawn, and any piece whatsoever, must win in all cases; a pawn on
a rook’s file, co-operating with a bishop, whose diagonal is of a
different colour from the square at which the pawn must make a queen,
only excepted.

Two knights alone cannot mate.

Two bishops alone may mate.

A knight and a bishop may mate.

A rook, against a knight, makes a drawn game.

A rook, against a bishop, makes a drawn game.

A rook and a knight, against a rook, make a drawn game.

A rook and a bishop, against a rook, win.

A rook and a bishop, against a queen, make a drawn game.

A rook and a knight, against a queen, make a drawn game.

A queen, against a bishop and a knight, may win.

A rook, against a bishop and two pawns, makes a drawn game.

A rook, against one knight and two pawns, makes a drawn game, because
in this, as in the last case, he who has the single potent piece,
cannot be hindered from sacrificing it for the two pawns.

A queen, against one rook and two pawns, makes a drawn game.

THE =_Laws of Chess_=.

The Laws or Constitutions of a Game are originally established, either
to prevent or decide contests; because, by defining what is in itself
indefinite, by determining that which, without any explanation, would
be uncertain, they put an end to all obstinacy and dispute. These
statutes, founded at first in reason, consecrated afterwards by custom,
confirmed at length by the practice of the best players, and the
approbation of the most illustrious authors, may be reduced to the XVII
following RULES, which the Society or Club of Chess in ENGLAND have
adopted for their code.

LAWS OF CHESS.

I.

The chess-board must be placed in such a manner, that each player may
have a white square at his right hand.

II.

He that gives a piece is supposed to have the move, unless it be agreed
otherwise. In games without odds, lots must be cast for the move, which
afterwards becomes alternate.

III.

If a pawn or piece have been forgotten at the beginning of the game, it
will be in the adversary’s choice, either to begin the game afresh, or
to go on, permitting, nevertheless, the piece forgotten to be set in
its place.

IV.

If it is agreed to give the advantage of a piece, or a pawn, and it
have been forgotten at the beginning of a game, it will be left to the
choice of him who has suffered by such a mistake, to proceed, or to
recommence.

V.

A piece once touched must be played, unless it be said, in touching it,
_J’adoube_: but if a piece be displaced or overturned by accident, the
player in whose set it is, will be allowed to restore it to its place.

VI.

If you touch one of your adversary’s pieces without saying _J’adoube_,
he has a right to oblige you to take it; and, in case you touch a piece
not prizable, you, who have touched it, must play your king if you can.

VII.

When one has dismissed a piece from his hand, he cannot take it again,
to play it to another place; but so long as he keeps his hold of it, he
is at liberty to play it where he pleases.

VIII.

A player making a false move, must play his king, as in rule VI. but no
false move can be recalled after the adversary’s succeeding move: so
if the irregular move be not revoked in time, the position taken must
remain as if it had been just.

IX.

Every pawn which has reached the eighth or last square of the
chess-board, is entitled to make a queen, or any other piece that shall
be thought proper; and this, even when all the pieces remain on the
chess-board.

X.

Any pawn has the privilege of advancing two squares, at its first move:
but, in this case, it may, in passing, be taken by any pawn which might
have taken it if it had been pushed but one _move_.[32]

XI.

The king, when he castles, cannot in his flight exceed two squares,
that is, the rook with which he castles must take the square next to
the original square of the king; and the latter, leaping over, must be
posted close on the other side of the rook.[33]

XII.

The king cannot castle when in check, nor after having been moved, nor
if in passing he was exposed to a check, nor with a rook which has been
removed from its place: and he that castles when he should not, must
play his rook touched, or his king, at his own choice.

[32] One _square_ would be more correct: but the language of this tenth
rule is retained verbatim; because the reasoning on which the rule
rests, seems to depend on this mode of speaking. EDITOR.

[33] The old way of castling in several countries, and it still
subsists in some, was to leave to the player’s disposal, all the
interval between the king and the rook, along with the squares first
assigned them.

XIII.

If a player give check without warning, the adversary will not be bound
to ward it off; and he may consequently play as if such check did
not exist: but if the former, in playing the next move, were to say,
_Check_, each must then retract his last move, as being false, and he
that is under check is to obviate it in the prescribed form.

XIV.

If the adversary warn you of a check, without however giving it, and
you in consequence touch, or move, either your king, or any other
piece, you will then be allowed to retract, so long as your adversary
has not completed his next move.

XV.

If any one touch a piece which he cannot play without exposing his king
to check, he must then play his king; and if his king cannot be played,
the fault is of no consequence.

XVI.

When one has nothing else to play, and his king being out of check,
cannot stir without coming to a check, then the game is stale-mate. In
England, he whose king is stale-mate wins the game[34]; but in France,
and several other countries, the stale-mate is a drawn game.

XVII.

At all conclusions of parties, when a player seems not to know how to
give the difficult mates, as that of a knight and a bishop against
the king, that of a rook and a bishop against a rook, &c. at the
adversary’s request, fifty moves on each side must be appointed for the
end of the game: these being accomplished, it will be a drawn game.

[34] Reasons calculated to allay the surprise which attends the first
mention of the rule, may be found in the Introduction to Chess, in the
first volume.

The EDITOR invites the experienced reader’s particular attention to
the 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th rules; as some points intended to be
established by them, seem open to discussion.—_vide_ Appendix.

=GAMES=

=_Played without seeing the Board_=.

Mr. Philidor being of opinion that an entire collection of the games
he has played without looking over the chess-board would not be of
any service to amateurs, he will only publish a few parties which he
has played against three players at once, subjoining the names of his
respectable adversaries, in order to prove, and transmit to posterity,
_a fact_, of which future ages might otherwise entertain some doubt.

_The following Account appeared in the London News-papers, the 9th of
May, 1783_:

"Yesterday, at the Chess-club in St. James’s Street, Mr. PHILIDOR
performed one of those wonderful exhibitions for which he is so much
celebrated. He played at the same time three different games, without
seeing either of the tables. His opponents were Count BRUHL, Mr.
BOWDLER, and Mr. MASERES. To those who understand chess, this exertion
of Mr. PHILIDOR’S abilities, must appear one of the greatest of which
the human memory is susceptible. He goes through it with astonishing
accuracy, and often corrects mistakes in those who have the board
before them. Mr. PHILIDOR sits with his back to the tables, and some
gentleman present, who takes his part, informs him of the move of his
antagonist, and then, by his direction, plays his pieces."

In the triple party before mentioned, Mr. PHILIDOR gave the move to
Count BRUHL and Mr. BOWDLER, and the advantage of a pawn and the move
to Mr. MASERES: the moves of each party were played alternately.

COUNT BRUHL’S PARTY.

                    1.
    W. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    4.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    5.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the bishop’s pawn.
    B. The queen’s bishop takes the king’s pawn.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    W. King’s bishop at the queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The same.

                    11.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The same.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    13.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    16.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king castles with his rook.

                    17.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    18.
    W. The king castles with his rook.
    B. Queen’s knight at his 3d square.

                    19.
    W. King’s knight at his 3d square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    20.
    W. Queen’s rook at its bishop’s square.
    B. Queen’s knight at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    21.
    W. The king’s knight takes the bishop.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the knight.

                    22.
    W. The queen gives check at the king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The queen covers the check.

                    23.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The king takes the queen.

                    24.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the queen’s knight.
    B. The queen’s knight’s pawn takes the bishop.

                    25.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s rook at its knight’s square.

                    26.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop at the adverse queen’s rook’s 3d.

                    27.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The queen’s knight’s pawn takes the queen’s knight’s pawn.

                    28.
    W. The queen’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. King’s rook at his queen’s bishop’s square.

                    29.
    W. The queen’s rook takes the king’s rook.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    30.
    W. The rook at the queen’s rook’s square.
    B. The bishop at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.

                    31.
    W. The rook takes the queen’s rook’s pawn.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    32.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s 3d.

                    33.
    W. The rook at its queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    34.
    W. The rook takes the bishop.
    B. The rook takes the queen’s knight’s pawn.

                    35.
    W. The rook at the queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    36.
    W. The rook gives check at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king at his knight’s 3d.

                    37.
    W. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the rook’s pawn.
    B. The knight at his rook’s 4th.

                    38.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s 2d.
    B. The knight takes the king’s bishop’s pawn.

                    39.
    W. The bishop takes the knight.
    B. The rook gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    40.
    W. The king at his knight’s 2d.
    B. The rook takes the bishop.

                    41.
    W. The rook takes the queen’s pawn.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    42.
    W. The rook at the adverse queen’s square.
    B. The rook at the adverse queen’s 3d.

                    43.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    44.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook gives check at the adverse queen’s 2d.

                    45.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.

                    46.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    47.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn 1 square, and wins the game.

MR. BOWDLER’S PARTY.

                    1.
    W. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    4.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    6.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    7.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.

                    8.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.

                    10.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    11.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The king castles.

                    12.
    W. The king castles with his rook.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    13.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    16.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.

                    17.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 2d.

                    18.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at his rook’s 2d.

                    19.
    W. The king at his rook’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 2d.

                    20.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The queen’s knight’s pawn takes the queen’s rook’s pawn.

                    21.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the queen’s knight’s pawn.
    B. Queen’s knight at its 4th square.

                    22.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the knight.
    B. The queen’s bishop takes the bishop.

                    23.
    W. King’s rook at its knight’s square.
    B. The same.

                    24.
    W. King’s rook at its king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    25.
    W. The queen’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen’s rook takes the pawn.

                    26.
    W. King’s rook at its king’s knight’s square.
    B. King’s rook at its queen’s rook’s square.

                    27.
    W. The queen’s rook takes the rook.
    B. The queen takes the rook.

                    28.
    W. The rook at his queen’s bishop’s square.
    B. The queen at the adverse queen’s rook’s 3d.

                    29.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s bishop’s square.
    B. The queen at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    30.
    W. The queen at her square.
    B. The rook gives check, at the adverse queen’s rook’s 2d.

                    31.
    W. The bishop covers the check, at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    32.
    W. The rook takes the queen.
    B. The bishop at the adverse queen’s rook’s 4th.

                    33.
    W. The rook at its queen’s knight’s square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    34.
    W. The king at his knight’s 3d.
    B. The knight at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    35.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his square.

                    36.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his square.
    B. King’s bishop at the adverse queen’s rook’s 3d.

                    37.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    38.
    W. The rook takes the bishop.
    B. The knight at his king’s 2d.

                    39.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s 2d.

                    40.
    W. The rook at his king’s square.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    41.
    W. The knight takes the rook.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    42.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    43.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the knight, and gives check.

                    44.
    W. The king at his knight’s 3d.
    B. The bishop at the adverse queen’s square.

                    45.
    W. The knight at his king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    46.
    W. The king takes the bishop.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.

                    47.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.

                    48.
    W. The king at his queen’s 2d.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    49.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.

                    50.
    W. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    51.
    W. The king at his queen’s rook’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 4th,
       and makes a drawn game.

MR. MASERES’ PARTY.

_He received the King’s Bishop’s Pawn, and the Move._

                    1.
    W. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    2.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 2d.

                    3.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    4.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.

                    5.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    6.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    7.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    W. King’s bishop at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    11.
    W. The king castles.
    B. The queen at her bishop’s 2d.

                    12.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    13.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s rook at its knight’s square.

                    14.
    W. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    15.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king castles with his rook.

                    16.
    W. King’s knight at his rook’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    17.
    W. The queen’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The queen’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    18.
    W. The queen at her king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.

                    19.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    20.
    W. The queen at her king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    21.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the knight.
    B. The king’s rook takes the bishop.

                    22.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    23.
    W. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The knight takes the pawn.

                    24.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s rook at his bishop’s square.

                    25.
    W. The queen at her king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The knight at the adverse queen’s 3d.

                    26.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his square.
    B. The queen at her knight’s 3d.

                    27.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    28.
    W. The queen’s rook takes the knight.
    B. The queen takes the queen’s knight’s pawn.

                    29.
    W. Queen’s knight at his king’s 3d.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    30.
    W. The king takes the queen.
    B. Queen’s rook at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    31.
    W. King’s rook at its bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook at the adverse queen’s 3d.

                    32.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse queen’s rook’s 4th.

                    33.
    W. The queen’s rook takes the rook.
    B. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the rook.

                    34.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s square.
    B. King’s bishop at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.

                    35.
    W. The rook at his king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s bishop at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.

                    36.
    W. The rook at its queen’s rook’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    37.
    W. The rook at its king’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the queen’s pawn.

                    38.
    W. The rook at its queen’s 2d.
    B. The rook takes the king’s bishop’s pawn.

                    39.
    W. The rook takes the pawn.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    40.
    W. The knight takes the bishop.
    B. The queen’s pawn takes the knight.

                    41.
    W. The rook at its king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    42.
    W. The king takes the rook.
    B. The bishop takes the king’s pawn.

                    43.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The bishop at his king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    44.
    W. The knight at his king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    45.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.

                    46.
    W. The knight at his queen’s square.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    47.
    W. The knight takes the pawn.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.

                    48.
    W. The king takes the bishop.
    B. The king at his queen’s 3d.

                    49.
    W. The king at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The king’s pawn 1 square, giving check.

                    50.
    W. The king at his 4th square.
    B. The king at his 3d square.

                    51.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The same.

                    52.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king at his queen’s 4th.

                    53.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king’s pawn 1 square, giving check.

                    54.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king at his 4th square.

                    55.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    56.
    W. The king at his 2d square.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    57.
    W. The king at his bishop’s 2d square.
    B. The king at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    58.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king takes the rook’s pawn.

                    59.
    W. The king takes the pawn.
    B. The king takes the knight’s pawn, and wins the game.

ANOTHER MATCH,

_Played at the_ CHESS-CLUB, _the 10th of May, 1788, against_ Count
BRUHL, Mr. NOWELL, _and_ Mr. LEYCESTER.—Mr. NOWELL _and_ Mr. LEYCESTER
_received the odds of the Pawn and the Move, and_ Count BRUHL _only the
Move_.

COUNT BRUHL’S SECOND PARTY.

                    1.
    W. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The same.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    3.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s bishop at his knight’s 2d.

                    5.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    6.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    7.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the rook.

                    8.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    W. The queen’s bishop takes the king’s pawn.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the knight.

                    10.
    W. The queen takes the knight’s pawn.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    11.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    12.
    W. The knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.

                    13.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The queen’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    14.
    W. The knight takes the pawn.
    B. The knight takes the knight.

                    15.
    W. The queen takes the knight.
    B. The queen takes the queen.

                    16.
    W. The bishop takes the queen.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    17.
    W. The king at his queen’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    18.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    19.
    W. The rook at the king’s rook’s square.
    B. King’s bishop at his 3d square.

                    20.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. The king castles.

                    21.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the adverse queen’s 3d.
    B. The knight at the queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    22.
    W. Queen’s bishop at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    23.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s rook’s 2d.
    B. The rook at the king’s rook’s square.

                    24.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    25.
    W. The bishop takes the rook.
    B. The knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    26.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    27.
    W. The pawn takes the knight.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    28.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    29.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    30.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.

                    31.
    W. The bishop at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s knight’s 4th.

                    32.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s square.
    B. King’s bishop at the adverse queen’s bishop’s square.

                    33.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s rook’s 4th.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the queen’s rook’s pawn.

                    34.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at the adverse queen’s bishop’s square.

                    35.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s square.
    B. King’s bishop at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    36.
    W. The king at his queen’s 4th.
    B. The king at his 2d square.

                    37.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The king at the king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    38.
    W. The bishop at his king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.

                    39.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s knight’s 4th.

                    40.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s square.
    B. King’s bishop at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th.

                    41.
    W. The king at his 3d square.
    B. The king at his 4th square.

                    42.
    W. The bishop at his king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his king’s 2d.

                    43.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the pawn.

                    44.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the pawn.

                    45.
    W. The king at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th, and wins the game.

MR. NOWELL’S PARTY.

_He received the King’s Bishop’s Pawn, and the Move._

                    1.
    W. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s rook’s 3d.

                    2.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 2d.

                    4.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.

                    5.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    6.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The king castles.

                    7.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    9.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    10.
    W. The king castles.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    11.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    12.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.

                    13.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    14.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his rook’s 3d.

                    15.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 4th.

                    16.
    W. King’s rook at its bishop’s 2d.
    B. The knight takes the bishop.

                    17.
    W. The queen takes the knight.
    B. Queen’s rook at its bishop’s square.

                    18.
    W. Queen’s knight at his 3d square.
    B. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    19.
    W. The queen’s knight takes the pawn.
    B. The knight takes the knight.

                    20.
    W. The knight takes the knight.
    B. Queen’s rook at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    21.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s square.
    B. Queen’s rook at its queen’s bishop’s square.

                    22.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s rook at its bishop’s 2d.

                    23.
    W. The king at his rook’s 2d.
    B. Queen’s rook at its king’s bishop’s square.

                    24.
    W. The queen at her king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s square.

                    25.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s bishop’s square.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    26.
    W. The queen at her king’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    27.
    W. King’s rook at its bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s rook at its knight’s 2d.

                    28.
    W. The queen at her 2d square.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    29.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s rook at its queen’s knight’s square.

                    30.
    W. The king at his rook’s square.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    31.
    W. King’s rook at its knight’s 3d.
    B. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    32.
    W. The rook takes the rook.
    B. The queen takes the rook.

                    33.
    W. The rook takes the pawn.
    B. The queen takes the king’s pawn.

                    34.
    W. The rook gives check, at its king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.

                    35.
    W. The knight at his king’s bishop’s 3d square.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.

                    36.
    W. The rook at its king’s rook’s 4th.
    B. The king at his knight’s square.

                    37.
    W. The bishop takes the rook’s pawn, and gives check.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.

                    38.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.
    B. The rook at its king’s rook’s square.

                    39.
    W. The rook at its king’s knight’s 4th, giving check.
    B. The king at his bishop’s square.

                    40.
    W. The queen at her king’s 3d.
    B. The king at his square.

                    41.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. The queen at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    42.
    W. The queen at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s square.

                    43.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d.
    B. The queen at her 3d square.

                    44.
    W. The queen at her king’s 3d.
    B. The rook at its king’s bishop’s square.

                    45.
    W. The queen at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th, giving check.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s square.

                    46.
    W. The queen at her 2d square.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    47.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 3d.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    48.
    W. The queen at the adverse king’s rook’s 3d.
    B. The rook at its king’s square.

                    49.
    W. The bishop takes the queen’s knight’s pawn.
    B. The rook at its king’s 2d.

                    50.
    W. The queen at the adverse king’s rook’s square, giving check.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d.

                    51.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    52.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    53.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    54.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s bishop’s 3d.[35]
    B. Queen’s bishop at his queen’s 2d.

                    55.
    W. The queen at her 4th square, giving check.
    B. The queen at her queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    56.
    W. The queen takes the queen.
    B. The king takes the queen.

                    57.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    58.
    W. The king’s knight at his king’s square.
    B. The rook takes the bishop.

                    59.
    W. The king at his knight’s square.
    B. The rook at its king’s bishop’s 2d.

                    60.
    W. The knight at his king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. The rook takes the knight, and wins the game.

[35] The EDITOR cannot avoid observing, that if instead of the
retreat here made by the knight, the queen were transported to the
black queen’s rook’s square, check-mate might be soon effected. He
has hitherto forborne, and he will not multiply remarks on these
games, played _ex tempore_, lest it should seem hypercritical. In few
cases, indeed, would a passing animadversion on a single move be of
utility. A proposed change, before it can add any thing to the store of
experience, must have its consequences traced in a back game.

MR. LEYCESTER’S PARTY.

_He received the King’s Bishop’s Pawn, and the Move._

                    1.
    W. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.

                    2.
    W. The queen at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th square, giving check.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    W. The queen takes the queen’s bishop’s pawn.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    4.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    B. King’s pawn 2 squares.

                    5.
    W. The queen at her king’s 3d.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    6.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.

                    7.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the pawn.
    B. The king’s knight takes the pawn.

                    8.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    9.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.
    B. King’s bishop at his rook’s 3d.

                    10.
    W. King’s bishop at the adverse queen’s knight’s 4th.
    B. The king castles with his rook.

                    11.
    W. The queen at her king’s 4th.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    12.
    W. The queen at her queen’s bishop’s 4th, giving check.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.

                    13.
    W. The queen at her king’s bishop’s square.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse queen’s 3d.

                    14.
    W. The king’s bishop takes the queen’s bishop.
    B. The king’s knight takes the bishop, and gives check.

                    15.
    W. The king at his 2d square.
    B. The king’s rook takes the king’s bishop’s pawn, and gives check.

                    16.
    W. The queen takes the king’s rook.
    B. The king’s knight takes the queen.

                    17.
    W. The king takes the knight.
    B. The queen at the adverse queen’s 3d.

                    18.
    W. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    B. The rook at its king’s bishop’s square, giving check.

                    19.
    W. The king at his square.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    20.
    W. King’s rook at its king’s bishop’s square.
    B. The rook takes the rook.

                    21.
    W. The king takes the rook.
    B. The queen at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    22.
    W. The king at his square.
    B. The knight at his king’s 4th.

                    23.
    W. Queen’s knight at his rook’s 3d.
    B. The knight at the adverse queen’s 3d, giving check.

                    24.
    W. The king at his bishop’s square.
    B. The queen at the adverse queen’s square, giving check-mate.

THIRD MATCH.

CHESS-CLUB, Saturday, March 13, 1790.

Mr. PHILIDOR _played Three Games at once; Two without seeing the
Boards, and the third on looking over the Table. His Opponents were
the_ Hon. H. S. CONWAY, Mr. SHELDON, _and_ Capt. SMITH. _The Game_ (Mr.
PHILIDOR _being allowed to see the Pieces_) _was against_ Mr. CONWAY;
_the Move he gave to each of his Adversaries_.

HON. H. S. CONWAY’S PARTY.

                    1.
    B. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The same.

                    2.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    4.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    5.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 3d.
    W. The queen at her king’s 2d.

                    6.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    7.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    8.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    9.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    10.
    B. The king castles with his queen’s rook.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    11.
    B. The queen’s bishop takes the knight.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.

                    12.
    B. The queen takes the queen.
    W. The king’s knight’s pawn takes the queen.

                    13.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    14.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The king’s pawn takes the queen’s pawn.

                    15.
    B. The rook takes the pawn.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    16.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the bishop.
    W. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the bishop.

                    17.
    B. King’s rook at its queen’s square.
    W. The king at his 2d square.

                    18.
    B. King’s knight at his square.
    W. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    19.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    20.
    B. King’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the king’s pawn.

                    21.
    B. The king’s knight takes the pawn.
    W. The knight takes the knight.

                    22.
    B. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the knight.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    23.
    B. King’s rook at its king’s square.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s bishop’s square.

                    24.
    B. Queen’s rook at its queen’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    25.
    B. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The queen’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    26.
    B. The queen’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.
    W. The queen’s rook takes the king’s pawn.

                    27.
    B. King’s rook at its bishop’s square.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s knight’s 4th.

                    28.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s rook at his knight’s square.

                    29.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    30.
    B. Queen’s rook at its king’s bishop’s 3d.
    W. King’s rook at its knight’s 2d.

                    31.
    B. Queen’s rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 3d.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    32.
    B. Queen’s rook at the adverse king’s rook’s 3d.
    W. King’s rook at its king’s knight’s 3d.

                    33.
    B. The rook takes the rook.
    W. The rook takes the rook.

                    34.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    35.
    B. The rook takes the king’s rook’s pawn.
    W. The bishop takes the king’s knight’s pawn.

                    36.
    B. The knight takes the bishop.
    W. The rook takes the knight.

                    37.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.
    W. The king at his queen’s 3d.

                    38.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s rook’s square.
    W. The king at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    39.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 1 square.

                    40.
    B. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the pawn.
    W. The king at the adverse queen’s 4th.

                    41.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s rook’s 3d.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s knight’s 2d, giving check.

                    42.
    B. The king at his queen’s bishop’s square.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    43.
    B. The rook takes the queen’s bishop’s pawn.
    W. The rook gives check, at the adverse king’s knight’s square.

                    44.
    B. The king at his queen’s knight’s 2d.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    45.
    B. The rook at the adverse king’s 3d.
    W. The king’s pawn makes a queen.

                    46.
    B. The rook takes the queen.
    W. The rook takes the rook, and wins the game.

MR. SHELDON’S PARTY.

                    1.
    B. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The same.

                    2.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    3.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.

                    4.
    B. The pawn takes the pawn.
    W. The pawn takes the pawn.

                    5.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    6.
    B. Queen’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. King’s pawn 1 square.

                    7.
    B. King’s knight at the adverse king’s 4th.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    8.
    B. The king castles.
    W. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    9.
    B. The knight takes the knight.
    W. The pawn takes the knight.

                    10.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The same.

                    11.
    B. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    12.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 2d.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s 3d.

                    13.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The king castles.

                    14.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s rook’s 4th.
    W. The queen at her bishop’s 2d.

                    15.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.

                    16.
    B. The queen at her king’s 2d.
    W. The knight takes the bishop.

                    17.
    B. The queen takes the knight.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    18.
    B. The knight at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    W. The queen’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    19.
    B. The knight takes the queen’s bishop’s pawn.
    W. The bishop takes the knight.

                    20.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.
    W. Queen’s rook at its queen’s bishop’s square.

                    21.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square, at the adverse queen’s bishop’s 3d.
    W. King’s rook at its queen’s square.

                    22.
    B. King’s rook at its queen’s square.
    W. King’s rook at the adverse queen’s 3d.

                    23.
    B. The rook takes the rook.
    W. The queen’s bishop’s pawn takes the rook.

                    24.
    B. The bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    W. The bishop takes the bishop.

                    25.
    B. The pawn takes the bishop.
    W. The queen at her knight’s 3d.

                    26.
    B. The king at his bishop’s 2d.
    W. The queen takes the queen.

                    27.
    B. The king takes the queen.
    W. The rook takes the pawn.

                    28.
    B. The rook takes the pawn.
    W. The rook at its queen’s 3d.

                    29.
    B. The king at his queen’s 2d.
    W. The king’s pawn gives check.

                    30.
    B. The king takes the king’s pawn.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    31.
    B. The rook at its queen’s rook’s square.

    W. The queen’s pawn makes a queen, and though forced to be
       exchanged for the rook, the white party wins the game.

CAPT. SMITH’S PARTY.

                    1.
    B. King’s pawn 2 squares.
    W. The same.

                    2.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.
    W. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.

                    3.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.

                    4.
    B. Queen’s bishop at the adverse king’s knight’s 4th.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    5.
    B. The bishop takes the knight.
    W. The queen takes the bishop.

                    6.
    B. Queen’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    7.
    B. King’s bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s rook’s pawn 2 squares.

                    8.
    B. Queen’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. King’s bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 4th.

                    9.
    B. King’s knight at his bishop’s 3d.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    10.
    B. The queen at her 2d square.
    W. Queen’s bishop at his king’s 3d.

                    11.
    B. The king’s bishop takes the bishop.
    W. The king’s bishop’s pawn takes the bishop,

                    12.
    B. The king castles with his rook.
    W. King’s knight’s pawn 2 squares.

                    13.
    B. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The knight at his queen’s 2d.

                    14.
    B. King’s knight at his king’s rook’s 2d.
    W. King’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    15.
    B. King’s knight’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The king at his 2d square.

                    16.
    B. The king at his knight’s 2d.
    W. Queen’s pawn 1 square.

                    17.
    B. King’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The knight at his king’s bishop’s square.

                    18.
    B. Queen’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    W. The knight at his king’s knight’s 3d.

                    19.
    B. Queen’s bishop’s pawn 1 square.
    W. Queen’s rook at its king’s knight’s square.

                    20.
    B. Queen’s pawn 1 square.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s knight’s 3d.

                    21.
    B. The queen’s pawn takes the king’s pawn.
    W. The queen takes the queen’s pawn.

                    22.
    B. Queen’s knight at his queen’s 4th.
    W. The king at his queen’s 2d.

                    23.
    B. Queen’s rook at its king’s square.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn 1 square.

                    24.
    B. The queen at her king’s bishop’s 2d.
    W. The bishop at his queen’s bishop’s 2d.

                    25.
    B. Queen’s knight at his king’s 2d.
    W. The king’s rook’s pawn takes the pawn.

                    26.
    B. The queen takes the pawn.
    W. The queen takes the queen.

                    27.
    B. The knight takes the queen.
    W. The knight gives check at the adverse king’s bishop’s 4th.

                    28.
    B. The king at his rook’s square.
    W. The king’s rook takes the pawn.

                    29.
    B. King’s rook at its king’s knight’s square.
    W. The king’s rook takes the king’s knight, and gives check.

                    30.
    B. The king takes the rook.
    W. The rook gives check, at its king’s rook’s square.

                    31.
    B. The knight at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th, covering check.
    W. The rook takes the knight, and gives check.

                    32.
    B. The king at his knight’s 3d.
    W. The knight at the adverse king’s rook’s 3d,
       discovering check from the bishop.

                    33.
    B. The king at his knight’s 4th.
    W. The rook at the adverse king’s rook’s 4th,
       giving check-mate.

Not to retrace a connected series of moves in the game, the reader will
perceive that the black king should have been moved to his knight’s
second, and not to his knight’s fourth, by which the mate would have
been thrown to a considerable distance; if a blemish be in the 33d
move conspicuous, so was brilliant manœuvring in preceding stages.

These exhibitions of play are not, indiscriminately, models: but the
amateur who wishes to see the gambit pursued, from the inceptive state
in which the studied examples leave the gambit, to a decisive result,
may consult Count BRUHL’S SECOND PARTY with advantage.

The EDITOR cannot express greater admiration than he feels, at the
talents which supported the masterly professor in a successful combat
with distinguished players, under combined difficulties and privations
voluntarily encountered. The chance of confusion in the picture in his
mind, furnished some dependence to his opponents: but it was scarcely
to be expected, that a player, so completely exercised, should be drawn
into a novel situation, or an untried combination; or that if such
could be offered to him, that his progress would be embarrassed.

APPENDIX.

_ON DISPUTED POINTS._

By suggesting elementary regulations, and by improvements on the best
plans of his predecessors, PHILIDOR laid a foundation for investing
the theory of the game with stability and excellence; and there wants
only the concurrent efforts of reasoning players, to give the few
principles which remain afloat, or which rest, by sufferance, on bases
that do not harmonize, a settlement that by an agreement of parts, and
a coincidence with order, shall be entitled to permanence.

As the object of the game is to convey into the mind a facility at
resource by exercise, it seems peculiarly worthy to receive, from
time to time, all the improvement, as a system, that experience and
reflection can bestow. But the thinking votary of Chess, in the
cultivation of this slow maturity, will guard it from all radical
changes; because the history of its progress, through successive ages,
and in various countries, allows no hope of producing all at once,
by any effort of mind, a combination of study with amusement, to be
pursued as a game, that shall rival it in utility and interest.

As a prelude to a complete adjustment of principles, the Nomenclature
of Chess, circumscribed in subjects, but redundant in obscurity and
error, deserves attention. Care should be taken to distinguish, by
appropriate terms, the _Elementary Institutes_ which fix the powers,
and modes of action of the pieces, from the _General Maxims_, or
Directions for Playing, which communicate, as far as theoretic
indications can, the most dextrous ways of using them; and these,
again, should be distinguished from those _Laws_ or Regulations which
obviate or decide disputes between players, respecting punctilios in
the management of the pieces, and the board. In Treatises of Chess,
these have been indiscriminately blended under the general name of
_Rules_; to the impediment of the student, exploring publications for
a lucid path to the game. A neglect of division and arrangement, was
the less pardonable in works professed to be scientific compendiums
of Chess, because discretionary liberty was afforded, in the local
position of the materials, by the extent of the plan. The framers of
the _Laws of Chess_[36], on the contrary, had it not in contemplation
to compose a system for the uninitiate; which is a satisfactory apology
for their mixing decisions on a few disputed points, which belong to
the class of _Elementary Institutes_, with Provisions, or _Laws_, to
prevent the errors or inadvertencies of players, from obstructing the
game.

[36] Ante page 199.

It is not intended to call in question the justness of the general
tenor of their short code, which administers corrections of incidental
informalities, perfectly equitable. Sections IX, X, XI, XII, however,
are employed in regulating the powers and modes of action of peculiar
pieces, embracing the most problematical points. Separating these, we
investigate their propriety, in the order there pursued.

Section IX. enacts, that a pawn may become a queen, when ALL _the
pieces remain on the board_. Consequently a player may have two, or a
greater plurality of queens. How, enquires the player recently entered
on the study of the game, is each additional queen to be represented
and distinguished? By placing two pawns on one square, and pushing
them about in company; a solecism in theory, a barbarism in practice.
Against it, PHILIDOR, in the first edition of his work, violently
inveighs. His reasons and his poignant ridicule are recorded; but he
has not favoured us with the arguments by which he was afterwards
induced to give it countenance. Perhaps he was overborne by a majority,
prepossessed in favour of a practice, to which, from their first
acquaintance with the game, they had been accustomed.

The EDITOR begs leave to suggest, that by limiting the promotion of
the pawn to the highest office or, power, _vacant_, an incongruity
revolting against method, may be avoided; and a moderate share of
skill will still enable the player, to derive the utmost preponderance
from a pawn on the eve of promotion. It is only necessary previously
to offer an exchange of queens, which can seldom be refused, without
surrendering the advantage of position: not to mention that the
conversion of a pawn merely into a rook, would prove, in the hands of
an able player, an effective acquisition.

We now enter on the consideration of Section X. It must be owned that
PHILIDOR was always an advocate for the principle which pervades
it, inculcating it before it was engrafted in the English code. It
professes to establish, that an unmoved pawn may be disqualified
from advancing two squares, by the circumstance of an adverse pawn
having penetrated to the fourth square of an adjoining file. There
is a refinement in this decision, which, while the mistake on which
it rests lay undetected, recommended it to the ingenious. Expose the
mistake which probably gave rise to it, and the rule is left without
foundation. The phrase "two _steps_ the first _move_," or "two _moves_
the first _step_," an occasional substitution, was current through
chess books, and with players. Hence a habit was implicitly contracted,
of contemplating a pawn exercising this power, as making TWO _moves of_
ONE _square each_, not ONE _continued integral move of_ TWO _squares_.
The EDITOR observes, that if the former idea be right, every one must
admit the rule to be right; for who could make a journey of 20 miles,
that is precluded from going the first 10. But if the latter idea be
the correct one, if the pawn, at its first move, have really the power
of going two squares at one effort, it is as irregular to prohibit the
exercise of that power, because the pawn, were it to halt on its way,
would be taken; as it would be to prohibit the bishop, the rook, or
the queen, the full exercise of their greater powers, whenever there
is a square in the line of their passage, at which they could not rest
without being taken. Ought any of the latter pieces to be precluded
from passing such a square? The absurdity of the phraseology which
supports the rule is conspicuous, when extended to the queen; it would
be grotesque to say, that she makes seven moves. For these reasons, in
describing the properties of the pawn, in the _INTRODUCTION TO CHESS_,
in the first volume, no notice is taken of this disqualification.

Section XI. involves nothing that can materially offend the advocate
of order, except that in pursuing one species of uniformity, it loses
sight of another. By confining the king to move precisely the same
distance from his original square, whether he castles on the king’s
side or the queen’s side, his relation to the covering pawns, when
castled, and the space from the exterior of the board, is not on
each side uniform. If the rule be intended to restrain a piece from
exerting unnecessary license, in leaping over another piece, it should
be remembered, that either the king or the rook must vault three
squares in castling on the queen’s side, and the king is entitled to
the prerogative of taking this flight once in a campaign, in preference
to the rook. Under the mode here prescribed, the king is not equally
shielded on the queen’s side as on the king’s. In the inceptive games
of the Introduction, the castled king is invariably placed on the
knight’s square, and the rook on the bishop’s. The object, however,
is of less importance than the two preceding; and as to any striking
influence on the aspect of the game, does not furnish materials for a
cogent argument, founded on a comparison of effects. The reader having
surveyed both modes, will induct that which he approves, into his own
practice.

Section XII. embraces several objects. It is therefore recapitulated,
with the points which the EDITOR invites to be considered,
distinguished by Italics. "The king cannot castle _when in check_,
nor after having been moved, _nor if in passing he was exposed to a
check_, nor with a rook which has been moved: and he that castles
when he should not, must play his rook touched, or his king, at his
own choice." Is not the prohibition upon the king from castling, when
in check, as extraordinary as if a general were prevented from flying
under the guns of a fort, when the efforts of a numerous enemy were
concentrated on him? If this disability be essential to a tactical
conduct of the game, let it be continued. It seems, however, to have
been transmitted from player to player, after the reasons which
occasioned it ceased to exist. In past eras of Chess, the king and
rook had such a latitude in castling, that the assailant might be
defied to conjecture to what part they would be transported. The most
expedient qualification of this license, that then presented itself,
was to restrict the king from castling when in check, in order that an
elaborate attack might not be entirely eluded. Succeeding legislators
of Chess have defined the place of castling, and the distance to
be passed; and the original argument, for the prohibition under
discussion, has vanished. Reason will not oppose a repeal of one of
the restrictions on the chief piece on the board, at the multiplicity
of which every person, on a first introduction to the game, feels
surprise. It is to be added, that very interesting situations occur,
by allowing the king to castle when in check; and that trains of
operation parallel, cannot be induced under a contrary practice.

With respect to the prohibition from castling, _if the king in passing
would be exposed to a check_, it rests precisely on the same grounds
as the disability imposed on the pawn; and a restriction from passing
a square on which an adverse piece acts, should be imposed on all the
pieces, or on none; now if it were general, it would be impossible to
pursue the game, from the wearying and minute examination of every
square, in all possible tracks, which would be incumbent on the player;
and the consequent paralysis of the leading pieces, which it would
occasion. If this excessive refinement controlled all the movements
on the board, chess would have a constitution most ingeniously
impracticable.

FINIS.

       _Printed by W. Smith,
    King Street, Seven Dials._

BOOKS

_Published for_ SAMUEL BAGSTER, _No. 81, Strand_.

BELL’s BRITISH THEATRE,

                               CONTAINING
                   _The Ninety most esteemed Plays_,

                EACH ORNAMENTED WITH A CHARACTER PRINT,

                           At Sixpence each,
             or, neatly bound and gilt in 22 Vols. 3l. 3s.

                      _The same Work may be had_,
                     PRINTED ON FINE VELLUM PAPER,
               And each PLAY embellished with TWO PLATES,
                   Price 4l. 8s. complete in Numbers,
              or, 6l. elegantly bound in 22 Vols. with the
               Titles of each Play lettered on the Back.

_List of the Plays in_ BELL’S _British Theatre_.

     1 Comus
     2 Maid of the Mill
     3 Lionel and Clarissa
     4 Love in a Village
     5 Beggar’s Opera
     6 Venice Preserv’d
     7 Fair Penitent
     8 Zara
     9 Douglas
    10 Mourning Bride
    11 Rule a Wife and have a Wife
    12 The Alchymist
    13 Love for Love
    14 Love makes a Man
    15 The Busy Body
    16 The Orphan
    17 The Albion Queen
    18 Cato
    19 The Country Girl
    20 The Chances
    21 The Tender Husband
    22 The Beaux Stratagem
    23 The Spanish Friar
    24 The Distrest Mother
    25 The Earl of Essex
    26 Jane Shore
    27 Edward the Black Prince
    28 The Conscious Lovers
    29 Every Man in his Humour
    30 Philaster
    31 The Careless Husband
    32 The Provoked Husband
    33 Boadicea
    34 Oroonoko
    35 A Bold Stroke for a Wife
    36 Lady Jane Grey
    37 The Suspicious Husband
    38 The Carmelite
    39 She Stoops to Conquer
    40 Alzira
    41 The Country Lasses
    42 The Fair Quaker of Deal
    43 Oedipus
    44 Medea
    45 The Miser
    46 Cleone
    47 Ximena
    48 All for Love
    49 Tamerlane
    50 The Way to Keep Him
    51 Tancrid and Sigismunda
    52 All in the Wrong
    53 The Recruiting Officer
    54 The Grecian Daughter
    55 Isabella
    56 The Constant Couple
    57 The Gamesters
    58 George Barnwell
    59 The West Indian
    60 The Hypocrite
    61 The City Wives’ Confederacy
    62 The Wonder
    63 The Committee
    64 The Gamester
    65 Amphitryon
    66 The Foundling
    67 The Good Natured Man
    68 The Brothers
    69 The Minor
    70 The Earl of Warwick
    71 The Natural Son
    72 The Roman Father
    73 The Jealous Wife
    74 The Refusal
    75 She Wou’d and She Wou’d not
    76 The Double Gallant
    77 The Drummer
    78 The Clandestine Marriage
    79 The School for Wives
    80 The Fashionable Lover
    81 The School for Lovers
    82 The Countess of Salisbury
    83 The Choleric Man
    84 The Battle of Hastings
    85 The Discovery
    86 The Revenge
    87 Theodosius
    88 The Rival Queens
    89 King Charles
    90 Siege of Damascus

THE MINOR THEATRE,

               (being a Companion to the BRITISH THEATRE)
                               containing
                    THIRTY-SIX CHOSEN FARCES OF THE
                            _BRITISH STAGE_,
                WITH MINIATURE PORTRAITS OF THE ACTORS,
               in 7 Vols. neatly bound and gilt, 17s. 6d.

                      _The same Work may be had_,
                     PRINTED ON FINE VELLUM PAPER,
                                  WITH
                      PORTRAITS and SCENE PRINTS,
                   bound in 7 Vols. elegant, 1l. 8s.

               _Neatly Printed in One thick Vol. Octavo_,
                               GLEANINGS
                                  FROM
                         BOOKS on AGRICULTURE,
                     WITH TWO PLATES OF INSTRUMENTS
                          USED IN AGRICULTURE,

                         Price 7s. 6d. Boards.