Albert L.Hilliard Vv/ 

CHESS OPENINGS ANCIENT AND MODERN REVISED AND CORRECTED UP TO THE PRESENT TIME FROM THE BEST AUTHORITIES By E.  FREEBOROUGH AND REV.  C.  E.  RAN KEN fFITH NUMEROUS ORIGINAL VARIATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS BT GEO.  B.  ERASER,  DUNDEE, 
R E  r.  W.  W A  r T  E,  LONDON,  AND OTHER EMINENT PLATERS AND ANALYSTS PHILADELPHIA,    DAVID McKAY PUBLISHER,   604  So.  WASHINGTON SQUARE fiVjlf 

^/      il l/Jklri I.      m^^rJ PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION. 

:o HE first edition of this work has become a  useful and convenient book for reference among Chess writers,  correspondence playera, 
&c.,  not only throughout Great Britain and Ireland,  but also in America and the Colonies.  The present edition was begun about two years ago,  under the impression that it would be chiefly  & 
reprint of the former one,  with iniprovements in detail and arrange- 
ment. The progress of knowledge has however led to the introduction of new ideas,  and new linos of play,  with which every amateur of moderate strength,,  desirous of doing full justice to his skill,  ought certainly to be acquainted.  The result is necessarily a  larger book^ 
with the recommendation that it is Ukely to be useful to a  larger circle of players.  This will now include all who are interested in Gub Handicap Tournaments and odds-play,  as well as all students, 
and Chess-lovers generally. 

Readers will please note that the Index in the present edition is transferred to the end of the volume* 

544492 

Digitized by the Internet Archive in  2007  with funding from lyiicrosoft Corporation http://www.archive.org/details/chessopeningsancOOfreerich CHESS OPEiJtNGS. 

INTRODUCTION THIS Work is a  compilation on the principle of arrangement introduced in Cooli's Synopsis,  with such additions and improvenients as have suggested themselves by comparison with the German Handbuch des Schachspiels and other treatises on the Openings.  Mr.  Cook's arrangement is unsurpassed for facility of reference,  and for the clearness with which it places the results of various lines of play before the reader.  We have taken his columns as a  starting point and posted them up to the present time from published,  and unpublished games,  availing ourselves of the labours of several eminent analysts for the purpose of supervision.  We have Varied the arrangement where we have found the original stem of an opening hidden by the growth of variations.  In such cases we have either transferred the accretion of material to some kindred opening or used it as the foundation of a  distinct debut.  Thus some variations of the Philidor defence which were unknown in Philidor's time,  -find their place in the Three Knights*  game ;  while we have relieved the Bishop's Opening and the Petroff Counter Attack from the joint charge of the Boden-Kieseritzky Gambit,  and estabhshed the Hungarian Defence and the Jerome Gambit as openings on their own account.  On the other hand there has been a 
shrinkage in the popularity of some openings,  as for instance the Damiano Gambit,  and the Lopez Gambit,  to which we have awarded secondary places,  the former among the Irregular Defences to the King's Knight's Opening,  and the latter among the offshoots from the King's Bishop's Opening. 

In adapting the various lines of play which we have found already arranged in the pages of the Synopsis,  the American Supplement^  and the Hcmdbuch,  we have taken nothing on trust We have gone carefully through every variation,  aDv^  noted altsrnative moves ;  selecting the latter ciHESa OPENINGS. 

for our columns if they showed themselves on examination to be improve- 
ments on the previous text.  Mr.  Cook's preference was for actual play, 
but the play of even the best masters over the bonrd is uneven,  as thoir own annotations sufficiently show.  On the other hancl long seriey of moves,  supplied originally by ingenious analysts as the best on both sides, 
are never met with in practice.  If they involve intricate or apparently risky play they are commonly disregarded.  Something simpler is called for,  and is invariably forthcoming.  Thus true progress is made by a 
combination of practice and theory.  We have utilised one to correct the other.  Where the correction required several moves v/e have given them. 
Where it allowed freedom of action we have contented ourselves with naming the initial move.  It is possible and also probable that we are not alwa^'s right in our selections.  Every existing Chess work supplies illustrations of the danger of being too positive.  One of our objects has been to make the book useful to correspondence players and industrious students,  who with the aid of an alternative move,  not necessarily superior to the one it replaces,  will often be able to upset the plans of older players,  whose ideas with time and practice move most freely in familiar grooves. 

It is a  weak point in books of this class that they are not and never can be exhaustive.  However carefully and elaborately they are worked out they simply provide a  foundation upon which ingenious players build novel combinations.  The Handbuch is the most advanced work of the kind,  but the many variations it supplies,  while contributing to its com- 
pleteness, take away from its handiness.  It has become chiefly valuable as a  book of reference,  and as such deservedly holds the first place.  Here again it follows,  as a  matter of necessity,  that the greater the number of variations the greater the difficulty of arranging them,  and of tracing any one of them when arranged.  Further,  there is the reader's pocket to consider.  To meet these considerations we have enlarged upon Mr.  Cook's text in those directions where a  novice will be likely to require further information,  and deleted columns and notes that with the natural progress and cultivation of the game seem now poor and commonplace.  We have also added a  special introduction to each opening,  to show the general principles which govern the play.  If the student's memory fails him with regard to the order of moves,  he ought at all events to remember the principle of the opening he is playing,  and so evolve suitable moves from his internal consciousness according to his strength.  Assuming him to be possessed of a  moderate share of analytical acumen it is probable that he will derive 
,  as much benefit from this process as he will by wading through the details of every variation.  He will certainly be in a  better position for satisfying his immediate requirements oyer the board,  for there will not be that discrepancy between his plans and his performance that so frequently characterises'  a book player when he arrives at the mid-game. 

In addition to all this we have given a  list or summary of the general principles on which the play in the openings is established.  **  From analogies of ponitioup,"  remarks Mr.  Sfeinitz,  "in the play of old sjod modf?rD masters certain madms have been deduced ..  which diirp^nse vnih CHESS OPENINGS. 

n 

^  good deal of analysis,  and are generally accepted by experts as scientif.c laws."  We are indebted to Mr.  Potter for this idea,  and have supple- 
mented his list,  by others that have been suggested to us in working out various hues of play,  and their consequences. 

Having thus done what we can to economise the student's time and money,  with a  due regard for efficiency,  we have not thought it essential to dive very deeply into questions and variations which occupied tho minds of Chess players a  generation or two ago.  They have for the most part been disposed of by some preliminary or alternative move which we have given and marked as best with the sign  !.  If a  move occurs to the vesder that v/e have not treated,  he must not too rashly assume that wo have missed it.  It will be safer to suppose that it is contrary to soma fundamental principle,  or that there is something objectionable about it which we consider fairly within the limits of an ordinary Chess-player's capacity to discover.  The tendency in practical play is to turn from those openings or variations which have been most thoroughly analysed and select,  in preference,  others less familiar.  Both players are thus placed on a  more equal footing.  To meet this tendency we have supplied in our notes numerous alternative lines of play which will be found useful for consideration or practice.  In cases where we are not certain whether the alter native,  moves we give are the best,  and it is a  matter of importance, 
we generally supply a  reference to the player or writer.  When this ia not done it implies that the original author of the suggestion is not known,  that our authority has failed to supply the source from which he had it,  or that it is an effort of our own to fill up a  gap left by some previous writer. 

As a  general rule our columns supply the best,  or main,  variations, 
t^hile the notes 'give the sub-play.  There are,  however,  exceptions,  some- 
times arising out of space considerations,  sometimes where an apparently stronger move or combination has not yet passed the ordeal of analysis and practice,  and sometimes when an inferior but plausible continuation requires many moves to demonstrate its disadvantages.  It follows that 
—  the columns and notes must be considered together.  We have occasionly given in the latter,  as illustrations of the resources of an opening,  the results of actual practice carried into mid-garne.  We have preferred this course to that of adding a  complete series of Illustrative games ;  such games — the practice of the best masters — being,  so far as they are available,  the material out of which our columns. and. notes are con- 
structed. 

With reference to the signs  4-  and  =  used in this work,  they must not be regarded as mathematically exact..  The student should bear in mind that  =  does not mean absolute equality,  but that there is  "no decisive advantage on either side,  or not sufficient advantage to justify the use of the sign  4-.  Further the apphcation of the signs may possibly appear in some cases to be lees a  matter of fact than of fancy.  It is not easy at all times to ostiraate the resources of position as opposed to force. 
Where there is a  difference of opinion on these points between the reader CHESS OPENINGS. 

i and the compilers,  the former must talie into account that we have had before! 
us in many cases a  continuation of the various games,  or moves,  as our guide in positions that he may consider open to question.  In case no sign at all is affixed to a  column,  the conclusion is,  that there is more to be said on both sides,  and that this is left to future analysis. 

One of the principal advantages to be derived from an examination of the Openings is a  knowledge of the art of transposition.  It is very rarely that we meet with an opponent who sticks to the text of an' 
analysed opening.  When he departs from it he usually makes an inferior moye,  but this does not necessarily follow.  He may be trans- 
posing by sbfne indirect method into another opening or variation in which he is'more at home,  or by which he hopes to gain an advantage. 
It is clear that this requires a  corresponding change of tactics on the other side,  so as to force him into a  line of play which shall yield him no benefit through his innovation.  The summary of sections prefixed to each book will show generally the various ramifications of kindred openings from a  single stem,  and enable the student to contract or enlarge his base of attack or defence according to his knowledge.  We have pointed out where one opening runs into another,  and a  little observation and practice will enable the student to invent transpositions for himself.  He will quickly find their utility.  He will discover,  among other things,  that tact and inference are useful in Chess,  as in other games of skill,  although they are not regarded as the special accomplishments of a  Chess-player  ; 
and also that independent thought is by no means cramped or weakened, 
but rather encouraged and stt^engthened by familiarity with book openings. 

It will be seen from these remarks that we do not encourage the student to rely implicitly on memory.  A book is useful to point out where the novice has gone astray.  A player who commences with the idea of becoming a  first-rate by mastering the theory,  and studying the principles of the game,  may exhaust himself in encountering the numerous exceptions which crop up in actual practice,  and discover too late that he might or ought to have won but did not.  On the other hand a  player who despises book knowledge,  and determines to find out every- 
thing for himself,  may expend the whole of his Chess life in ascertaining the truth of elementary principles.  It is well to give our predecessors credit for knowing something of the game,  and economy of time and labour to accept the result of their experience as if it were our own ; 
although it is not our own,  till it fits in with our own practice and requires little effort of memory to recall.. 

To those players and analysts who have assisted us v/ith original variations we must express our deepest gratitude.  Mr.  Geo.  B.  Fraser,.  of Dundee,  whose reputation is world wide,  has supplied us with much original analysis,  which we doubt not will be highly appreciated by numerous players.  Mr.  Eanken in addition to general revision,  is responsible for the entire plan and compilation of the Scotch Gambit,  tU© 
Four Knights'  Game,  the Vienna Openmg,  the Steinitz Gambit,  and the Centre Gambit-      Mr.  Freeborough's special contribution in this respect CHESS OPENINGS. 

\f IS the Allgaier Gambit,  with some original variation^  of the King's Gam- 
bit proper.  The majority of the Prefaces to the Openings and the General Introduction arc also from his pen.  The Rev.  W.  Wajte has exercised his unrivalled theoretical and book knowledge in general supervision. 
We are largely indebted for miscellaneous assistance to Messrs.  D.  Forsyth, 
of Edinburgh,  J.  Russell of Glasgow,  W.  H.  S.  Monck of Dublin,  Edward Marks of London,  W.  Nash of St.  Neots,  W.  T.  and J.  Pearce,  and umerous other players for hints and special variations. 

The joint labour  (suggestive,  constructive,  or critical)  of so many experienced player's has,  we trust,  fully carried out our programme,  and enabled us to submit to the Chess world a  rehable text-book which will provide alike for the requirements of the student and the skilful player. 

i# 

In our second edition we have extended the process of discrimination and selection to the works on Chess published since  1889.  Our principle has been to fit into our treatise whatever seemed worthy of adoption or consideration while avoiding variations of inordinate length,  untested by practice or deficient,  in general interest. 

In addition to new lines of play supplied in the latest edition of the German Handbtich,  Mr.  Steinitz'  Modern Ch^ss Instructor,  and other publications,  we have had to consider numberless corrections or suggestions received from British and Colonial AmateUrs.  The introduction of these variations,  founded generally on hard experience,  has added materially to the utility of our work.  We have accepted them gladly as evidence of the wide-spread interest taken in the subject ;  further,  in connection with the novelties given in our first edition and not to be found in the great German treatise,  they enable us to take up a  more independent stand- 
point. They contribute to the formation of a  British School of Analysis, 
distinguishable from others by its preference for what is simple and solid rather than for what is subtle and far-fetched;  advancing by easy stages from precedent to precedent,  rather than trying to arrive at important conclusioiis by leaps and bounds. 

It is an instance of the widely spread knowledge and study of the game,  that many of the suggestions we have deceived refer to openings and variations that Chess writers are apt to consider as almost obsolete, 
but which,  it is apparent,  still hold their ground away from Chess centres among a'  large class of amateurs. 

With regard to the German analysts they aim at thoroughness and are certainly most remarkable for industry.  The Handbuch,  in its seventh edition,  is a  receptacle for both good and bad lines of play,  far beyond the capacity of a  single mind to assimilate.  We find therein long continu- 
ations of jveak moves,  very possibly exhibitions of fine Chess,  but which turn away the reader's attention from the ,  object he has in view in fonsuUing the work.      We have preferred to add short games in which 

10  CHESS OPENINGS. 

our students may take at least a  passing interest as illustrations of trapa and surprizes incidental to the opening,  under treatment.  The special lessons they inculcate are generally easy to remember. 

The Modem Chess Instructor has introduced many,  ingenious variations, 
worked out laboriously by Mr.  Steiriitz to conclusions which have not alway been confirmed by subsequent practice and analysis.  We have accepted these innovations so far as they appeared to be sound and in accordance with the spirit of the time.  We have,  however,  dechned to follow him in excursions which chiefly serve to illustrate his special manner.  Players who admire and cultivate this manner will,  of course, 
study Mr.  Steinitz'  book for themselves.  He has elsewhere partially ex- 
plained his peculiar style of play by remarking that as a  rule he is  "  not a 
dangerous assailant in the early part of a  game."  He approves and does not scruple to adopt moves which for' a time transfer the attack to his opponent.  They are founded upon a  subtle and very possibly sound distinction between extreme care and timidity.  On the other hand he sees success where less careful players find disaster.  One of the results of experience in Chess is that every style of development is good for the player who thoroughly understands it,  and bad for the tyro who favours it simply because Steinitz,  or Blackburne,  or some other master has contrived to make it a  success.  Imitation generally goes hand in hand with defeat until it is unnecessary ;  that is until the .  disciple has acquired a  style of his own. 

The kind of development most in vogue at present for serious play is that which may be described as irregular,  in which the arrangement is broken,  and each piece treated as a  separate entity,  with an eye to general utility as  .circumstances may permit.  The system of arranging the pieces early in the game to bear on one point is somewhat out of fashion.  The old attacking combinations to force a  win are however only held in abeyance,  and not forgotten.  It is still requisite to know them both in principle and,  practice. 

The force and flexibility of genius are never better displayed than in the discovery of some simple move or easily secured position that enables the player to avoid a  number of intricate variations.  There is an instance of this kind in the Buy Lopez Knight's game,  arising out of the advocacy by Mr.  Steinitz of the defence,  1  P-K4,  P-K4  ;  2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3 ; 
3  B-Kt5,  P-Q3,  &c.  It would be premature to say that the last-named move supersedes the many variations given in our treatise,  but it is certain that the Lopez will no longer be extended on the old lines,  and that more complicated variations will either go out of practice or be fitted into other openings by transposition of moves. 

The Petroff Defence is another opening that has been simplified by the additional hght thrown upon it by the Modern Chess Instructor.  Mr. 
Steinitz'  treatment has brought into notice its affinity with the French Defence,  and also indirectly its affinity--less  'obvious in this inBtanee— 
with the Queen's Pawn game and other openings in which the advance of the Queen's side-pawns is a  characteristic feature.  He has shown that it is not difficult to place several methods of development in one group^  and so save trouble in detail by bringing them under a  general law.' 

Other works on the openings,  published since  1889,  comprise sundry small Handbooks,  and Mr.  Gossii^'s Theory of the Chess,  Openings.  The former may be described as unpretentious,  but useful.  Mr.  Gossip's book is more pretentious.  It is,  however,  largely made up with extracts from the Modern Chess Instructor reprinted without reference to Mr.  Steinitz* 
motives for introducing certain moves,  and in some cases obviously with- 
out critical examination. 

I* 

It will be seen that we have added in this edition very considerably o  the size and scope of our work,  and that some openings have been re-arranged and partly re-constructed. 

The Vienna Opening and the French Defence have had much attention bestowed upon them in late years,  and there is apparently yet scope for many changes of practice and opinion with regard to them.  In the Vienna Opening the additions,  are chiefly in the interest of the defence, 
the variation  2...,  Kt-KB3  being now generally looked upon by experts as the strongest reply to  2  Kt-QB^ ;  while avoiding the complications and choice of attack which follow the replies  2...,  Kt-QB3  and  2  .  ,  B-QB4. 
This is a  return to the opinion expressed in the Handbuch and Praxis more than thirty years ago. 

In the French Defence,  the first player's game has been strengthened by the development of attacking continuations on the King's side of the board,  and as these arise naturally from Black's first move,  blacking his Queen's Bishop,  the tendency of discovery in this direction will probably be maintained.  Analytical study has also led to suggestions for the better treatment of the counter attack on the Queen's side.  This opening there- 
fore bids fair to become the most scientific embodiment of the close game when forced by ther second player. 

The addition of a  sixth book treating upon Games at Odds will,  we apprehend,  be much appreciated by the large and increasing class of players who take part in Club Tournaments.    It will most probably lead to the discovery of other methods of attack and defence superior to those we have been able to find in the existing literature on the subject.     What  , 
we have given is sufficient to give our students a  good start.      Innate   ' 
ingienuity combined with experience of analagous positions^  will,  no doubt,   ^ 
enable them to add improvements,  which are not sufficiently on the surface to be obvious to. ordinary capacities. 

In lieu of the old form of index adopted by Chess writers,  generally a 
mere hst of contents,  we have substituted an.  alphabetical arrangement giving the leading moves in every opening.'     This will be found a  great IS  •      CHESS OPENINGS. 

n improvement for facility of reference to any special opening or variation, 
The variations are named after the players who invented,  adapted,  ana- 
lysed or favoured them.  The old arrangement is retained in the Summary of Sections prefixed to each book. 

Among the many amateurs who have kindly taken an interest in our labours,  and furnished us with corrections,  suggestions,  and analyses, 
for the present edition,  we ought specially to name Messrs.  J.  H, 
Blake of Southampton,  W.  P.  Turnbull of Wolverhampton,  W.  J. 
Greenwell of Newcastle-on-Tyne,  and F.  J.  Young of Tasmania.  Others are named in our pages as their variations come into the text,  some prefer to remain unknown,  and one wishes his name to be withdrawn. 
\Ve must include all in our acknowledgment of obligations,  and hope our readers will agree with us that the additional material dealt with in the second edition will very considerably add to its usefulness for practical purposes to all classes of players. 

<|o|<^|ci> 

If PRINCIPLES. 
1. 

A game may be termed well-commenced — set openings apart — ^when the pieces are brought out so that no piece obstructs the action of another,  and that each piece be so well planted that it cannot be attacked ith impunity. — (Walker,} 

II. 

An opening to be well constructed should be made quickly  (Walker), 
consequently the same piece should not be moved twice until the other pieces are in play. — ( Steinitz.J The exceptions to this rule are when a  greater or at least an equal loss of time can be inflicted upon your adversary,  also when an improper move on bis part brings an important advantage within measurable distance. 

m. 

There are two styles of development ;  the attacking and the defensive. 
In one the pieces are spread about to secure the greatest possible command of the board.  In the other they are kept together mutually supporting or defending each other. 

Whichever method is adopted the player should be prepared to change from one to the other at short notice,  that is unless he sees a 
certain win bv the first course. 

IV. 

A man in i^Jay should not be exchanged for a  man out of play.  The ext^ption is whui to retreat would entail the loss of the attack. 

V. 

To gain a  Pawn in the opening it is worth while to lose one move. 
To gain a  Pawn it is seldom worth while to lose one move and the attack, 
against a  good player.  To expend two moves with a  Knight in order to win the exchange is rarely advisable. 

VL A  Pawn may generally be sacrificed in the opening with advantage when it accomplishes two objects ue.,  when it brings an undeveloped piece into play,  and at the same time keeps an opponent's piece out of play.    This applies especially to Gambit attacks. 

There are other ends which may be substituted for that of keeping tn opponent's piece out of play,  such as to facilitate access to his King, 
Ac. 

ll_ 

14^  CHESS OPENINGS. 

VII. 

Weigh your advantages and disadvantages.  When you have aa opportunity of making a  good move,  and you see before you another move which permits several good continuations,  select the latter.  Your adver- 
sary will most probably hasten to stop your good move at the risk of a 
bad game. 

This is the principle upon which the finest Gambit attacks such as the Muzio and the Allgaier,  are founded,  and it may be summed up in the maxim  **  retain as much freedom of action as possible." 

VIII. 

When you cannot see your way to an attacking move,  play a  develop- 
ment move.  When you cannot make a  development move,  play,  if possible,  a restraining move that will check your opponent's development. 

IX. 

When your opponent shows a  disposition to play a  backward or defensive game,  do not play a  forward game.  Keep your pieces together, 
play steadily and look out for weak spots. 

If he pushes forward rapidly in the centre,  try to get round him.  If he advances Pawns on both sides try to cut his game in two.  If he advances rapidly on one flank,  wait till he has fairly committed himself in that direction,  and then attack him on the other side.  This assumes that your game is not so far committed as to leave you no option. 

These maxims may appear obvious.  The difficulty is,  however to recognise their applicability in the position under your eyes when playing. 
This is the point which requires careful attention. 

X. 

P to KR3  to restrain the adverse Queen's Bishop from pinning your Knight at K  B  3  is deprecated by the modern school,  for although it does not always compromise the game yet it mostly loses time and gives un- 
necessary trouble on the King's side.  When attacking a  hostile piece the advance of the Hook's Pawn becomes useful in order to make room for the Knight,  as well as for dislodging an opponent's piece. — (Steiniiz.) 

XL Advanced Pawns should be supported from the side of the board and not from the centre.  A Queen's Pawn used as a  supporting Pawn is especially weak,  being open to attack on all sides. 

XII. 

On the same principle,  a supporting piece should always bo placec where he is least liable to attack,  or where,  if attacked,  he can support whii< 
retreating.  For this reason a  Knight is inferior as a  supporting piece, 
A good player will aim at the supports rather than at the front rank. 

f xm. 

A Rook on the same file as your opponent's King or Queen is alwajrs well placed,  intervening men notwithstanding.  In the former position, 
with Queen and the other Rook on adjoining files,  you may generally fore* 
the game.  This is easier if the intervening Pawns are disarranged. 
This principle may be extended to the Queen and two Bishops on three adjoining diagonals bearing upon the adverse  "King's quarters,  but the rule is not so certain in this case,  unless there are advanced Pawns to assist in the attack. 

XIV. 

In exchanging,  aim at securing a  majority of Pawns on your Queen's side.    That is if your King is castled on the other side. 

XV.. 

To be avoided or carefully guarded against are— 

1. — A sacrifice or capture which brings your King into position for a  diverging  .attack by Queen,  Rook,  Bishop,  or Knight. 
A double check is equally to be shunned. 

2. — A sacrifice or capture which drives your King away from the defence of a  piece by proximity. 

This maxim applies to any piece,  but in the opejiings it is generally the King that is aimed at through the K  B Pawn which he alone defends. 
The sacrifice alluded to is,  of course,  your opponent's,  the capture yours. 

'    XVI. 

An attack on the Castled King with four pieces will usually force ths ame and permit one piece to be sacrificed in order to clear the way. 

XVU. 

Castling on  ^the Queen's side is not so safe as castling on the King's side,  especially for the second player,  because it leaves the Q  R Pawn undefended.  There are,  however,  some notable exceptions to this rule, 
viz  : — when the Queen's file is open for the player so castling,  and not for his adversary ;  or when the Pawns on King's side can be advanced for a 
strong attack on his adversary's King already castled on that side. 

Some of these principles are mainly applicable to mid-game and end- 
game play,  and may therefore be considered beyond the scope of our present undertaking.  They are,  however,  coming events which cast their shadows before as far as the openings,  and frequently decide the course of action in critical positions,  We add for the same reason Mr.  Potter's Minor Principles,  pubHshed in Bland's Chess Player's Annual,  1882. 
They will be found very useful in making exchanges.  The words iu brackets are ours. 

16-  CHESS OPENINGS. 

MINOR,    OR SPECIAL PRINCIPLES. 

I.— Two Bishops are stronger than two Knights. 

2. — Two Bishops are stronger than Bishop and Knight. 

3. — A Bishop is stronsier than a  Knight in the middle game. 

4. — A Knight alone is stronger than a  Bishop alone in the end-game. 
This means,  however,  where they -are opposed,  seeing that : — 

5. — A Bishop makes a  better struggle than a  Knight against Pawns. 
6. — A Knight is weaker than a  Bishop against a  Rook. 
7. — Two Rooks and a  Bishop are stronger than two Rooks and a 
Knight. 

8. — Queen and Bishop are stronger than Queen and Knight. 

9.— Queen,  Rook,  and Knight are stronger than Queen,  Rook,  and Bishop.     (This applies to the end-game only.) 

10. — Two Rooks co-operating are stronger than a  Queen  (assuming the Rook player's King to be sheltered) ;  but unless such co-operation exists,  or can be certainly foreseen^  it is not wise to exchange Queen for two Rooks. 

11. — The Queen may usually be advantageously exchanged for two Bishops and a  Knight. 

12. — Two Knights and a  Bishop are often weaker than Queen not- 
withstanding that there are other forces. 

18. — Rook and Bishop struggle better against the  ^ueen than Rook and Knight. 

14. — Rook,  Bishop,  and Pawn are in numerous cases more than a 
match for the Queen.  This implies that the Pawn is either on,  or can be forced up to the seventh square. 

15. — Two Knights co-operate more powerfully when not protecting, 
than when protecting each other. 

16. — A Rook is at his best when in possesion of a  clear road. 
Motto  : — •'  Sieze the open file." 

17. — Pawns when advanced are in most cases safer against the Rook than when not advanced.  This assumes their having a  certain amount of support. 

18.— When a  Queen faces an adverse Rook on the same file there is danger,  however many men there may be between them. 

19.— A Knight at KB5  bodes ill for the adverse King castled on that side. 

20. — In average end-games the King is better on the King's or Queen's file than at either wing. 

CHESS OPENINGS. 

IT EXPLANATION OP NOTATION AND TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS. 

QR8 

QKtS bsat) 
QB8 

bs{) 
Q8 

bsH K8 

bsaH KB8 

bs:>HH KKt8 

l>8a3 
KR8 

QR7 

QKt7 

z^b QB7 

Zb Q7 

K7 

gaH KB7 

3^33 
KKt7 

sa3 

KR7 

QR6 

QKt6 

8a6 

QB6 

80 
Q6 

8H K6 

893 
KB6 

8^33 
KKt6 

8a3 
KR6 

fUb QR5 

QKtS ta& 

QB6 

fb Q5 

^3 
.  K6 

tan KB5 

^^33 
KKt5 

ta3 

KR5 

fSa& 
QR4 

QKt4 

9^b QB4 

S5 
Q4 

'k4 

san K-B4 

S^33 
KKt4 

sa3 

KR4 

9H5 
QR8 

9^Hb QKtS 

99^ 
QB3 

9C) 
Q3 

9H K3 

K2 

933 
KB3 

9^33 
KKt3' 

9a3 
KR3 

^H5 
QR2 

QKt2 

L^b QB2 

Lb Q2 

z.a3 

KB2 

Z..^33 
KKt2 

La3 
KR2 

eub QRsq 

8?H5 
QKtsq sab QBsq 

80 
Qsq 

8H- 
Ksq 

8a3 
KBsq 

8^33 
KKtsq 

8a3 
KRsq WHITE. 

-^  ^%^ 

id PLAN OF THE WORK. 

The Tables are so arranged that each column contains the moves of a  single variation.  The moves are expressed as fractions :  the move of the first player,  vi^hom we mvariably call  "  White,"  being above the lines and the move of the second player,  "  Blacky"  below the line. 

ABBREVIATIONS. 

stands for King or King's 
„       „  Queen or Queen*s 
„       „  Rook or Rook's 
„       „  Bishop or Bishop's 
„        „  Knight or Knight's 
„        „  Pawn or Pawn's 

„  Castles on King's side 
„  Castles on Queen's side ch stands for check disch sq X 

en pas 

! 

9 

„  discovered check 

,,  square 

,,  caKes 

„  en passant 

„  even game 

„  good or best move 

,,  weak or bad move 

„  superior position or game  (if above the line,  for White ;  if below the line,  for Black).. 

„  White wins.  — — -    stands for Black wins. 

E Q 

B B 

Kt P 

00     ., 

o-o-o ,. 

„        „  equal game,  or doubtful advantage on either side. 

The figures at the top of the tables are the numbers of the columns, 
inserted for reference. 

The numbers in the margin indicate the order in which the moves are to be played. 

REFERENCES. 

B.  C.  M.    —    British Chess Magazine. 

C.  P.  C.      —    Chess Player's Chronicle. 
C.  M.         --    Chess Monthly. 

Handbook  —  Staunton's Chess Player's Handbook. 

M.  C.  I.     —  Modern Chess Instructor,  by W.  Steinitz. 

Handbuch  —  Handbuch des Schachspiels. 

Salvioli      —  Teoria e  Pratica del Giuoco degli SchacchL Cook  —  Cook's Synopsis. 

A.  8.         —  American Supplement to the Synopsis. 

Walker       —  Walker's Treatise on Chess,  1841. 
Others are named in full. 

BOOK I. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

THE King's Knight's Opening springs from the moves  1  P-K4, 
P-K4  ;  2  Kt-KB3.  It is the method of development most in vogue at the present time.  White attacks an unprotected Pawn,  brings a  useful piece into play,  and prepares for castling on King's side.  Black has the choice of a  variety of replies for his second move,  viz.,  P-KB3,  P-Q3,  Kt- 
QB3,  B-Q3,  Q-K2  or B3,  as defensive moves;  P-Q4  andP-KB4  as counter- 
gambits  ;  B-B4  as a  counter development move,  giving up the Pawn,  and Kt-KB3  as a  counter attack.  Four of these replies,  viz.,  P-KB3,  B-Q3, 
Q-B3,  and B-B4,  give a  bad game,  and may be dealt with summarily. 
They are occasionally adopted against a  weak antagonist,  but between goodfplj^yers they are obsolete,  and are therefore classifiedas Irregular and Unusual Defences  (Sec.  I.).  P-KB4  and P-Q4  require more attention, 
and are frequently played in off-hand contests.  The former constituted tho Greco Counter Gambit  (Sec.  II.),  and the latter the Queen's Pawn Counter Gambit  (Sec.  III.).  Kt-KB3  has proved a  strong reply,  and constitutes the Petroif Counter Attack  (Sec.  IV.).  P-Q3  is the Philidor Defence,  considered safe but slow  (Sec.  V.).  Kt-QB3  is,  however,  the defence most frequently selected.  It leads to the most interesting positions,  and is also favourable to the regular development of Black's pieces,  while on the other hand it yields White the advantage of a  selec- 
tion of powerful attacks  (Sections VI. -XVI.). 

In all these variations the line of action for White is indicated by His second move,  Kt-KB3.  It is an attack on Black's centre,  upon which it is customary and commendable to bring all the pieces to bear as quickly as possible.  Both players must,  however,  be on the alert to divert their pieces to one side or the other when an eligible opportunity offers ;  and it becomes necessary to do so if the centre is blocked,  or so well guarded as to leave no chance of breaking through vath advantage.  The side Pawns may then be advanced with effect.  This must not be done too early or your opponent will be able to break them up,  or get round them,  and so turn your flank,  which,  in Chess,  as in war,  is generally fatal.  If the heavy pieces are exchanged,  and the centre open,  with the side Pawns on the second and third lines,  equal on both sides,  the game ought to turn out a  draw unless there is considerable difference between the strength of the players. 

20  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

From this point of view it is apparent that the best reply to the first player's move  2  Kt-KB3  should logically be  2  ...,  Kt-QB3, 
which not only defends the attacked King's Pawn,  but is in itself a 
development move,  commanding another important central square.  It is not quite so good as  2  ...,  Kt-KB3  in some respects,  and chiefly because it does not facilitate castling.  Blfick has still two pieces to play out on the King's side,  or two pieces and a  Pawn on Queen's side before he can accomplish this operation.  Upon this small foundation the first player is able to construct a  strong and enduring attack.  Greco  (1615)  recom- 
mended the counter gambit,  2  ...,  P-KB4,  to avoid the continuation 
8  B-Kt6.  Lopez  (1561)  for the same reason preferred  2  . . .,  P-Q3.  Philidor 
(1749)  combining  2  ...,  P-Q3,  with  3  ...,  P-KB4,  thought the second player got so strong a  game that  "White's move  2  Kt-KB3  was no longer advisable,  while Jaenisch  (1842)  considered the counter attack  2  .... 
Kt-KB3  to be the strongest reply.  We know that Philidor and Jaenisch subsequently modified their ideas on this subject,  but these fluctuations of opinion show that a  slightly inferior move,  in the hands of an eminent player,  may hold its ground for years against all the resources of theory and analysis.  i It will be seen from the annexed summary of sections that the player who wishes to play the Scotch Game  (Sec.  VIII.)  must be prepared to deal with the defences in Sections I.-V.,  and if he proposes to play the Evans Gambit  (Sec.  XIV.)  or the Lopez  (Sec.  XV.)  he will have to add a  knowledge of the Two Knights'  Defence  (Sec.  IX.),  and also the Hungarian Defence  (Sec.  X.).  For defensive purposes the second player need only know one or two of the first five sections.  If he is content to limit his practice to the Petroff"  Counter Attack  (Sec.  IV.)  or the Philidor Defence  (Sec.  V.),  and knows them thoroughly,  his acquaintance with the best moves in these openings will,  in actual play,  balance any inferiority that has so far been proved against them by analysis.  Monotony is how- 
ever wearisome and consequently undesirable.  The Defences treated in Sections II.-III.  are useful for occasional practice against a  slightly inferior player,  also against an opponent who persistently adheres to one method of attack.  For general purposes it is best to be prepared to play the Scotch Game,  the Evans,  or the Lopez,  which notlonly produce the finest games,  but tend to form a  good style by giving breadth to the player's views and dSpth to his combinations. 

■<Hmp^ 

SUMMARY OF THE SECTIONS INTO WHICH THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING IS DIVIDED. 

Sbction I. 

w n. 

m. 

L h"- 

F 

►v. 

1 

VI. 

1 

vn. 

l» 

vm. 

L 

1 

r 

'z. 

1 

XL 

1 

*> 

xn. 

»» 

xm. 

m" 

XIV. 

1 

XV. 

»    X 

^XVL 

1  P.K4,   P-K4;      2  Kt.KB3< 

Irregular and Unusual Defences, 

2  ...,  P-KB3.  QBS.  B-Q8,  and B-B4. 
The Greco Counter OamhiU 

2  ...,  P-KB4,  &c. 
The Queen's Pawn Counter Oambit, 

2  ...,  P-Q4^&c. 
Petrofs Counter Attack.        "\ 

2  ...,  Kt-KB3,  &c. 
Philidor's Defence, 

2  ...,  P-Q3,  &c. 
The Three Knights'  Games. 

2  ...,  Kt-QB3  or Kt-KB3;    8  Kt-B8,  &c. 
Staunton's Opening, 

2...,  Kt-QB3;    8  P-B3,  &c. 
The Scotch Game,  or Gambit, 

2  ...,  Kt-QB3;     3  P-Q4,  &c. 
The Two Knights'  Defence.    ^ 

2  ...,  Kt-QB3;  3  B-B4,  Kt-BS,  &o. 
The Hungarian Defence. 

2  ...,  Kt-QB3 ;    3  B.B4,  B-K2,  &c. 
The Giuoco Piano, 

2  ....  Kt-QB3  ;    3  B-B4,  B-B4,  &e. 
Max Lange's Attack, 

2  ...,  Kt-QB3:    3  B-B4,  B.B4 ;    4  Castles,  &c. 
The Jerome Gambit, 

2  ...,  Kt-QB3;    3  B-B4,  B.B4 ;    4  BxPch,  &c. 
The Evans Gambit,  accepted and declined. 

2  ...,  Kt-QB3  ;     3  B-B4,  B-B4 ;     4  P-QKt4,  &c. 
Ruy Lopez'  Knight's Game. 

2  ...,  Kt-QBS;    3  B-Kt5,  &c. 
The Four Knights'  Game. 

2  ....  Kt.QB3;    3  Kt-BS,  Kt-B3,  &c.. 

22  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

IRREGULAR AND UNUSUAL DEFENCES. 

1   P.K4.  f  .K4 ;    2  Kt-KBS, 

fP-KBS, 
Q-B3, 
B.Q3, 
lB.S4. 

THESE defences are moves which suggested themselves to Cheds players four hundred years ago.  They are found in the oldest treatises on the game as it is played at the present time.  In the survival of the fittest they have gone down in public estimation as replies to 
2  Kt-KB3,  but with a  slight change in their environment they are still occasionally feasible in ordinary play.  We utilise them to introduce certain combinations with which the student ought to be familiar. 

If is probable that the general warning given by most Chess writers against the move  2  ...,  P-KB3  had its origin dn the disastrous result of the Damiano Gambit for the second player  (Col.  1,  Notes  1  and  2). 
P-KB3  has,  however,  been resuscitated in late years,  by Mr.  Steinitz,  as a 
good defence to the King's Pawn in Staunton's Opening,  and its reputa- 
tion is improving.  Mr.  Reichhelm of Philadelphia supplies a  generalisa- 
tion. **  It is part of Steinitz's system of play that when the adverse King's Bishop is off the board,  or not in a  position to play effectively to QB4, 
Ihen the King's Pawn is best defended by P-KB3." 

The move  2  ...,  Q-B3  (Col.  2)  survives as a  later move in the Scotch Game and the Evans Gambit,  but its popularity is on tne wane in other variations of the King's Knight's Opening. 

B-Q3  (Cols.  3  and  4)  is objectionable on principle,  as it confines the Queen's Pawn and so shuts up the Queen's Bishop.  As a  defensive move in the AUgaier Gambit it is highly effective,  this reason notwithstanding. 
It has been suggested as available for the defence in other openings where the player is not pressed for time,  with the idea of subsequently playing the piece to QB2,  or QKtsq,  so as to command a  long diagonal. 

B-B4  (Col.  5)  is at first sight the least promising of the four,  but in Petroff's Counter Attack,  after  1  P-K4,  P-K4  ;  2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-KB3 ; 
8  B-B4,  may be played by the first player without disadvantage. 

These remarks illustrate G.  Walker's aphorism tbat  "one of th^ 
greatest advantages to be derived from a  knowledge of the openings is tho Ijerceiving how and when they may be safely departed from." 

Table  1.— IRREGULAR AND UNUSUAL DEFENCES. 

1  P.K4,  P-K4;     2Kt.KB8. 

8 

5 

6 

10 

11 

P-KB3 

KtxP     (1) 

Q-K2!     (2) 

Kt-KB3  (8) 

FQ4 

P-Q3 

PxP PxP QxPch BK2 

B-KB4 

Kt-Q4 

Kt-B3 

KtxB QxKt 
0-0 

BQS B-Q3-I- 

Q-B3 
Kt-B3! 

P-B8 
P-Q4 

PxP P-K5 

Q-Kt3 
QxP P-Q3 
B-K2-f B-Q3 
B-B4 

Kt-KB3 
P-Q4 

Kt-B3 
PxP BxP Kt-Kt5 

O^O P-B'4 
B-Q5 
P-K5 

Q-K2 
K-Bsq Kt-Ksq Q-R5 

P-KR3 

P-KR4-f(4) 

P-Q4 

P-QB3 
P-Q4 
B-B2  "/ 
PxP   ''(5) 
B3dP       ^ 
KtxB Q-R4ch Kt-QB3 

QxKt 
0-0  + 

B^Bi      (6j KtxP QlC2 

P-Q4 

B-Kt3     (7) 

B-QB4 

Kt-KB3 

BxPch K^sq B-Kt3 

KtxP 

0-0-f 

(1)  The Damiano Gambit ;  so named by Chess writers for purposes of identifica^ 
tion,  without regard to authorship.  White may also play with advantage  3  B-B4, 
(if)Kt-QB3;    4  0-0  +  . 

(2)  If  3  . . ,  P X  Kt ;  4  Q-R5ch,  K.K2  ;  5  Q x  KPch,  K-B2  ;  6  B.B4Qh,  P.Q4  ; 
7  B X  Pch,  K-Kt3  ;  8  P-KR4,  P-KR3  or  4  ;  9  B x  P,  B-Q3  ;  10  Q-QR5+.  Lewis in his Lessons  (1842)  gives full analysis.     See also Staunton's Handbook. 

(3)  If now  4  Q-R5ch,  P-KKt3  ;    5  Kt x  KtP,  Q x  Pch,  followed by Q  x Kt. 

(4)  Threatening  12  Q-Kt6. 

{5)Or5Kt-Kt5,fa-KR3(ifP-Q4;    6  Q.B3,  P-B3;    7  PxQP,  PxKt ;    8P-Q6-f); 
PxP.BxP;    7  Q-R5,  Q-B3  (if P-Q4  ;    8PxP.PxP;    9Kt-KB3);    8KtxBP+. 
(0.  E.  R.)  • 

(6)  If  2  . . ,  P-QB3 ;  3  Kt x  P  (or  3  Kt-B3 1),  Q.K2 ;  4  P.Q4,  P.Q3 ;  5  K^KB3. 
QxPch;    6B^K31-f.     (Monck.) 

(7)If4P.Q3;    SKtxP.QxKt;    6PxB  +  . 

24  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

SECTION II. 

THE GRECO COUNTER GAMBIT 

1P.K4,  P.K4;    2  Kt-KB3..P-KB4. 

THIS Counter Gambit dates from the early part of the seventeenth century.  It has chiefly been favoured by players remarkable for dash and brilliancy.  It is founded on the maxim that the strongest defence is a  counter attack.  It is theoretically unsound,  being a 
variation of the King's Gambit played by the second player with a 
move behind.  Nevertheless some of its variations give rise to interesting and intricate manoeuvring.     It appears to have held its ground,  along with 

2  ...,  Kt-QB3,  as a  fair reply to  2  I\t-KB3,  until a  comparatively recent period.  In  1839  five of the strongest players in Berlin — Hanstein,  Bledow, 
Mayet,  Bilguer,  and Von der Lasa — held a  weekly meeting,  and took this opening as a  subject for consideration.  Their investigations were afterwards  ^ 
arranged by Herr v.  der Lasa,  and published in the German  "  Hand- 
buch."     Mr.  Fraser subsequently contributed an entirely new defence by 

3  (KtxP)  Kt-QB3.  This move was also suggested by H.  Moller about the same time  (1873).  The variations supplied by Mr.  Fraser show that there is still room for discoveries in both attack and defence. 
The suggestions furnished by other analysts for the present edition are chiefly in the interest of the attack.  Col.  3,  named,  but not worked out,  by Walker in  1841,  seems worthy of attention as an alternative line of play. 

The variation given in Note  6  (Col.  4)  was the old continuation, 
until it was found that  7  Q-R3,  in lieu of R4,  gave a  decided advantage to the first player.  The special feature of this gambit is White's attack with Queen and Knight,  and the ingenious defence and counter attack, 
as given in Cols.  6-9.  This kind of attack fails in the Damiano Gambit 
(see previous section)  owing to Black's KB Pawn being advanced one square instead of twoi It.  is ev.aded in Col.  4  by the reply  3  ...,  Q-B3,  but the Black Queen is thus brought within easy range of the adverse Knights, 
which loses valuable time. 

The variation treated in Cols.  13-15  may be produced in the Giuoco Piano,  by the moves  1  P-K4,  P-K4  ;  2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3  ;  3  B-B4,  P.B4; 
also in the King's Bishop's Opening,  by  1  P-K4,  P-K4  ;  2  B-Bd,  P-KB4  ; 
B Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3,  &c.  The Gambit may be adopted by the first player withamoveinhand,viz.,  1P-K4,P-K4;  2  Kt-QB3,  Kt-KB3  ;  3  P-KB4, 
&c.  This constitutes a  strong development.  It is a  variation of the Vienna Opening. 

Greco's treatise was first printed in Paris in  1615. 

Table  ^.— THE GR^CO COUNTER GAMBIT. 

1P-K4.P-K4;      2Kt.KB3,P.KB4. 

P-K5 
Kt-Kt5 

BxP Q-K2 

P-Q4 
Q-Kt^ch 

'    Kt-QB3 
QxKtP 

8  KtxP B-Kt5ch 

9  KtxB-l- 

8 
Kt-B8     (3) 

4 
KtxP  ! 

P.K5  ' 

PxP Q-B3       (5) 

Q-K2 

KKtxP P-Q4 

Q.K2  y Q-B3       (4) 

P-Q3       (6) 

Kt-Q4  ^ 

P-Q4 

Kt-B4 

Kt-KB3^ 

B-Kt5 

PxP P-KKt4 

B-QB4  + 

Kt-B3!    (7) 

P-B4 

P-B8       (8) 

Kt-Kt5'   , 

Kt.xKP Kt-B3- 

Q-K3 

P-QB3 

Q-K2 

Kt-K4 

P-Q4 

Kt-B7ch^ 

Kt(K4)-Q6ch K-Qsq y 

K-Q2       (9) 

KtxR Kt-B7  !  + 

Kt-Q6ch   ^ 

K-Qsq Kt-KB3 
BB4 

PxP Kt-B7 

Q-K2 
KtxR P-Q4 
B-K2! 

P-KKt3 
P-Q3  + 

KtxKKtP 
+  (2) 

(Col.  4.) 

mm  ■  Mi After White's  6th move. 

26   .  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

NoTtts TO Table  2. 

(1)  If  4  P.KKt4,  P.KE4 ;  5  B-ES,  P x  P;  6  B x P.  P-KKtS. 

(2)  Haughton v.  Mackenzie. 

(8)  Mentioned by Walker.  The continuation, 3  .,,  P-Q3;  4  P.Q4  transpose* 
Into the Philidor defence  (Sec.  V.) 

(4)  4  ..,  Kt-KB3;  5  B.B4,  P.Q4 ;  6  Kt-QP,  KtxKt;  7.Q-E6ch,  P-KKt3j 
8KtxKtP,PxKt;    9QxPch+.    (Mom k v.  Philip.) 

(6)  The old line of play was  3  Q.K2 ;  4  Q.R5ch,  P-KKt3 ;  6  Kt x  KtP,  Q x  Pch ; 
6B.K2,Kt.KB3;  7Q-R31,  PxKt;  8QxR,  QxKtP;  9R-Bsq+. 

(6)  If  4  . . ,  P X  P ;  5  Kt-QB3.  P.Q3  ? ;  6  Kt.Q5,  Q-Qsq ;  7  Q-R5ch,  P-KKt3 ; 
8KtxKtP,B-Kt5;  9QxB,PxKt;  10  Q x KtPch,  K-Q2 ;  11  Q-B6ch  (De Soyres V.  Foster.) 

(7)  Threatening Kt-Kt5  as well as Kt-Q5.  (See diagram on previous page.)  Ho might also play  6  P-Q5 — a useful move in several variations. 

(8)Or6..,B-B4(tZ);  7  P-KKt4  (a)  (c),  B-KtS ;  8  B-Kt2,  Kt-B3 ;  9B-K3?(or P-Q61  Kt-K4;  10KxKt,QxKt;  110-0.  Fraser.)  The Handbuch,  in lei^ly to B-K3,  continues  9  ..,  0-0-0.  Mr.  Fraser suggests  9  ...  P-Q4;  (if)  lOKtxQP, 
!.B2;  llKt-B4,  QxKKt;.  12KtxB,PxKt;  13  B x  P,  0-0-0,  &c.  IllOKt-K6, 
-0-0. 

{a)  7  Kt-Q5,  Q.B2  ;  8  KK:t-K3  (or  8  QKt-K3!  Pilkington v.  Fraser,)  B.K3! ; 
9  P-QB4  ib),  P-B3 ;  10  Kt.B3,  P-Q4 ;  11  P x  P,  P x  P.  White may now check with B,  and bring Q-R4  after interposition of Kt,  but carried on for some moves further the positions show little difference. 

(b)  If  9  B.B4,  K-Qsq I ;    10  B.Kt3.  P-B3. 

(c)  7  Kt-Kt6,  Kt-QR3;     8  Kt-K3,  P-B3I;     9  Kt-B3,  Kt.B2.  &c.    If  7  P.B3, 

PxP;    8QxP,P-B3;    9  Kt-K3,  B-K3  =  . 

(d)  Black may also play  6  ..,  Q-K2;  7  Q-K2.  Kt-KB3;  8  B-Kt5,  B-B4; 
9  BxKt,  PxB;  10  P.KKt4,  B-Kt3;  11  B-Kt2-i-.  Or  6  ..,  Q-Kt3; 
7  P-B3,  PxP;    8  Q X  P  (threatening B-Q3). 

(?)If9.,.,K.Q8<L?'lOKtxPch,K-B2;    llQxQ.BxQ;    12 Kt(B4).B5+. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.  27- 

Tablb  8.— the GRECO COUNTER GAMBIT. 

IP.K4,PK4;    2  Kt-KBS,  P.KB4;    3  KtxP,  Kt -QBS  (1). 

6  7  8  9  10 

Q-R5ch  (2)  KtxKt 

^    FKK!a QPxKt KtxKtP Q-K2      (8) 

^    Kt-B3  PxP!(dia.) 

Q-R4       (3)  QxPch  (9) 

^    R-KKtsq PxP B^K2 

KtxB P-K5  KtxR BB4 

^    R-Kt5  KtxP P-Q4  KFl3 

Q-R6  KtxKt Q-Kt3  Q-K2 

®    RxPch Q-K2  Kt-Q5  WKBI K-Qsq     (4)  K-Qsq PKB4  Q-K5ch P-Q3 

^    Kt-KKt5  QxKt R-Kt5  Kt-K3  Q^QS Q-R5ch P-Q4  Q-B2  P-Q3  P-KR3 

^^    KxKt Q-K3  P:Q3  B-Q3  OOO Q  X BPch B-QB4  P-Q4  Q.B3!  0-0 

^^    K-Kt2  QxB PxKt Q.K2  KR-Ksq QB3f QxKt QPxP P-QR3  B-K3 

Q-R6       (5)  B-K2       (6)     Kt-K5      (7)     PxQP+  Q.Q2     (10) 

12 

(1)  Suggested in  1873  by Mr.  Fraser ;    also the same year by H.  MoUer. 

(2)  Frequently played.    If  4  P.Q4,  Q-R5 1 ;  (if then)  5  Kt x  Kt,  QP x  Kt ;    6  P-KS, 
B-K3,  &c. 

(3)  Or  6  Q-K2,  talcing three Pawns for the piece.    If  6  Q-R3,  R-KKtsq ;    7  Kt x  B, 
Q-K2 ;    8  Kt-K6+ .     See diagram p.  28. 

(4)  9  B-K2,  Q.K2 ,    10 Kt-B3,  R x Bch ;    11  KtxR,  Kt-Q5;    12  0-0,  KtxKtch+. 
(Fraser.)    If  10  Kt x  RP,  R x  Bch ;    11  K-Qsq,  Kt-KKt5 ;    12  Q-Kt6ch and can draw.' 

(Monck.) 

(5)  13  P-KKt3,  Kt-Q5  ,    14  Q-Kt2,  Kt x  BPch ;    15  Q x  Kt,  Q-Kt5ch ;    16  B-KS. 
R X  B and wins.    (Fraser.) 

(6)  13  R-Ksq,  Q-B2 ;    14  B-KtS,  Q-R4ch;    15P-B3,  QxB;    16 R x Bch, K-Qsq ; 
17QxQ,RxQ  =  . 

(7)  13  Q-B3,  B-Q2 1 ;    14  Kt.B3 1  B-B3 ;     15  Kt x  Kt,  B x  Kt ;     16  Q.B2,  Q.B4 ; 
17  B-K3-i-.    Cols.  8-10  are supplied by Mr.  Fraser. 

26 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

n 

(8)  P X  P.  may also be played.  If  5  P.K5,  B-K3 ;  6  P-Q4,  Q-R5.  If  5  P-Q4, 
Q-R5  as in Note  2.  Messrs.  Potter,  Wayte,  and Ranken suggest  5  B-B4  f ,  which Mr. 
Banken continues :— 5 . . ,  Q-Q5  (a)  (6) ;    6  P-Q3,  P x  P ;    7  Q-K2,  Kt-B3 ;    8  P-KB3 + . 

(a)  5  ..,Q-K2;  60-0,  PxP;  7BxKt,RxB;  8Kt.B3,B.B4;  9 R-Ksq, 0-0-0 : 
lOKtxP-f. 

(6)  5  . . ,  Q-R5  (Fraser) ;  6  P-Q3  (if  0-0,  Kt-B3 ;  7  P-Q3,  B.Q3,  &c.),  P x  P :  7  Q-K2, 
B.KB4;    8BxKt,RxB;    9Kt.Q2(ifP.KKt3,Q-Kt5), 0-0-0;  10PxP,&c. 

(9)  If  6  Q.R5chl K-K2;  7  B.B4,  Q-Ksq!  Or  7  Q-K5ch,  B.K3;  8  QxKP. 
Kt.B3 ;    9  Q-QKt4ch  ?  K-B2 ;    10  Q x  P,  B-QB4 ;    11  Q x  BP,  R-Ksq. 

(10)  Good game though minus a  Pawn. 

Table  3. 

(Col.  6.) 

mmAmm^m I 

til i§M±m mi m........WMA 

^«      » 

S  *  WmK, 

^!^i^ 

i^M mi After White's  6th move. 

(Col.  10.) 

W^^M, 

fc. 

S:^S 

©  1 

After Black's  5th move. 

The two positions given above represent the stage of the game from which the struggle between superiority of force on one side,  and superiority of development on the other may be studied and carried forward. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT^S OPENING.  ^9- 

Table  4.— THE GBBCO COUNTER GAMBIT. 

10 

V, 

12 

P-K4,   P-K4:     2  Kt-KB8,   P.KB4. 

12  18  14  15 

P-Q4 

Q-R5ch Kt.Ktg QPxP P-BS P-KKt3  Kt.R3  BPxP B.K2 

KtxP P-Q5  Q-Q5  Q-Kt8 

PxKt     (3)  Kt-K2     (8)     Q-K2  Kt-B3   (12) 

QxR QxPch Kt-QB3  B-KKt5  Kt-K5 

K^B2  k:K2 P-B3       (9)    B-K3  Kt-QR4 

B-K2      (4)    p.Q4  P-B4  QxKP Q-R4ch B-Kt2  Kt-KB3 PxQP P-Q4  P-B3 

Q-R7      (6)    B-KKtS PxQP BxP B-K6+ 

BxB QxB Kt.QB3 

P-Q4 
P-Q3 

m Kt.Kt6 

Kt.R3 

P.Q5 
Kt-K2 

(B) 

QxPch K-K2 

Kt-QB3 
P-B3 

(9) 

P-Q4 
Kt-KB3 

P-B4 
PxQP 

— 

B-KKt5 
Q-Q3 

BxQP(6)- 
QKt-Q2-PxQP P.K5 
.    B.Kt5ch B-Q2 
Kt-K6+(10) 

Kt-B3 
BxKt  (11) 
PxB 
00 

PxP 

(1)  3  . .,  P-Q3  transposes into Col.  13.    See also Table  11>  note  1.    If  3  . „  Kt. 
KB3;    4KtxKP+. 

(2)  4  ..,  Q-Kt4;    5  Kt-B7,  QxKtP;    6  R-Bsq,  P.Q4  ^    T.KtxR.  PxB I; 
8  Q-R5ch,  P-KKtS  ;    9  Q x  RP,  B-K3  ;    10  Q x  KtPch,  &c. 

(3)  6.,,Kt-KB3;    7  Q-K5ch,  a-K2 ;    8KtxB,  QxKt;    9QxQch,  KxQ; 
10  B-K2+ .    The variation arising from  6  P x  Kt is supplied by Mr.  Praser. 

(4)  8  Q-Q4,  B.K3 ;  9  B-Kt3,  Kt-QBS',    10  Q-R4,  or K3  and Black has a  good game. 

(5)  The Queen escapes,  but not without disadvantage in position. 
(6)10QxKtch,  QxQ;    llBxQch,KxB;    12BxQP,&c.    (Monck.) 
(7)If4BxKt,RxB;    5P-Q4,  P-Q3  =  . 

i        (8)  6  . . ,  Kt.QKtsq ;    7  Kt-QB3,  PxP;    8  QKt x  P,  B-B4  = .  (Steinitz.) 

(9)  Or  7  . . ,  P.B5  1  (Fraser).    If  7  . . ,  K.Kt3 :    8  Q-R5,  B-K2 :    9  Kt x  P+. 

(10)  If  11  . .  Q-Bsq ;    12  Q-Q4,  B-KKtsq ;    13  Q.R4  Ac. 

L(11)11Q-Kt5+.    (Ranken.)    The Col.  is De Riviere v.  Anderssen.    Black won, 
l2)6Kt.R4;    7  Q.R4cb,  P-B3 ;    8BxKt,  RxB;    9PxKP+. 

-80 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

SECTION III. 

THE QUEEN'S PAWN COUNTER GA.MBIT, 

P.K4,  P.K4;     2  Kt- KB  3,  p.  0  4. 

^mrm^m.^ 

THIS defence is a  combination of a  counter attack with a  development move,  releasing the second -player's Queen's Bishop.  For this reason it is slightly stronger than Greco's Counter Attack by  2  ...., 
P-KB4  ;  as is subsequently shown in Philidor's Defence,  in which the two lines of play are opposed to each other.  In the position on the diagram,  if the first player replies to Black's second move by takiijg the King's Pawn he may have a  difficult game  (Col.  5).  It  "is better for him to keep his attack on the King's Pawn and take the Queen's Pawn, 
by which course he gains time.  The second player may either accept the loss of a  Pawn,  and take what he can get for it in the way of develop- 
ment by  3  ...,  B-Q3  (Col.  1) ;  or he may push his K  Pawn on the White Knight,  which is a  premature attack  (Col.  2) ;  or ho may at once retake the Pawn with his Queen,  which will transpose the opening into the Centre Counter Gambit with a  weak K  Pawn  (Col.  4) ;  or into the Centre Gambit with a  move behind  (Col.  8).  In any case the first player will have the advantage. 

The result of this and the Greco Counter Gambit shows that although,  as George Wafeer writes,  **  counter attack is the soul of the and the word ought to be written on the marc'i game, 

board,"  yet it leads to nothing unless it can be followed say unless it is correctly timed. 

of up; 

the Chess-that is to 

-I Table  6.—THE QUEEN'S PAWN COUNTER GAMBIT. 

8 

9 

10 

11 

1 

PxP! 

1  P.K4,  P.K4;     2  Kt-KES,  P.Q4. 
2  8  4 

B-Q3 
P-Q4 

Kt-K5 

Kt-KB3 

B-QB4 

0-0 

0-0+ 

P.K6 

Q-K2 

B-K2 
QxP Kt-KB3 
B-Kt5ch 

(1) 

B-Q2 
Q-K2 

(2) 

KtxP BxBoh QxB P.Q4 

0-0 
00 
Kt-QB3 

P-B4-f QxP Kt-B3 

Q-K3 

B-Kt5cb  (8) 

B-Q2       (4) 

00 

P-QR3 

BxBcb KtxB PQ4 

OOO R-K8^+ 

Q-R4 

BB4 

Kt-QB3 

0-0 

B-Q3 

R-Ksq 

(5) 

P-B3 
P-Q4+ 

5 

KtxP PxP P-Q4 

B.K3 
B-QB4 

(6) 
(7) 

BxB KtxB FlBi 
0-0         — 
Kt.KB3    - 

(1)  This variation was played between Morphy and Paulsen.  If  4  . . ,  Q-K2 ; 
5Kt-Q4,|Kt-KB3  (If  5  ..,  Q-K4;  6  Kt-Kt5) ;  6  Kt-QB3,  Q-K4 ;  7  Kt-B3,  Q-K2: 
8Kt-KKt5+.  If4..,P-KB4;  6P.Q3,  QxP;  6  QKt.Q2,  Kt-KB3  ;  7  Kt-Kt6,  and wins a  Pawn. 

(2)  If  6  P-B3  White is prepared to give up his Q  for the discovered check. 

^     (3)  6  P-QKt3,  Kt.QB3:    6  B-B4.  Q-Kt3;    7  Q.K2,  B.Q3;    8  P-Q4,  B.KKt5. 
{Wisker v.  Bird.) 

<4)5P.QB3;    6B-K4,  B.K2;    7  0-0+. 

(5)  Or  6  B.K2 ;  7  R-Ksq,  Kt-KB3 ;  8  P-Q4,  PxP.  If  6  . . ,  B..KKt5  (Gossip) ; 
7BxPch,  &c. 

(6)If3B-Q3;  4  P.Q4,  PxP;  5  B.QB4,  BxKt;  6  Q-R5,  Q-K2 ;  7  PxB. 
(Wormald).  A brilliant variation introduced by Mr.  Cochrane comes in here: — 
3..,Q.K2;  4P.Q4,P.KB3;  6  Kt-QB3.  P x  Kt ;  6  KtxP,  Q-Q3  (or Q-B2);  7  PxP. 
QxP;    8B-Q3,  B.Q3;    9  P.KB4  with a  fair game. 

(7)  An old variation is  4  B.B4,  Q-Kt4  ;  5  Kt x  P  (B x  Pch is no better in the end)» 
QxKtP;  6  R-Bsq,  B-KKt5 ;  7  P-KB3,  BxP;  8  R-B2,  Q-Kt8ch ;  9  R-B8<j, 
Q.Kt6+  :  Gossip gives  7  B-K2  also to Black's advantage. 

82 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

SECTION IV. 

PETROFF'S COUNTER ATTACK. 

1P.K4,    P.K4  ;     2Kt-KB3,    Kt-KB3. 

THIS counter attack is an attempt on the part of the second player to equaHse the game by bringing about a  similarity of positions.  It dates from the Gottingen MS.  1490.  Walker,  in  1841,  described it as 
'•  a counter attack but a  bad one."  It was however revived by the Russian player,  M.  Petroff,  and carefully analysed by M.  Jaenisch who,  in the Palamede,  1842,  considered it the best reply to  2  Kt-KB3.  It has since that time been adopted in several important correspondence games,  but has not held its ground in public estimation,  and is now rarely played. 
Cols.  1-3  show that the first player,  by retaining the lead,  is able to secura ultimately an advantage,  and that his opponent cannot avoid it by introducing complications.  The first player may,  if he pleases, 
turn the opening into a  lively gambit attack by  3  Kt x  P,  P-Q3  ;  Kt x  P 
(Cols.  16-20) ;  or,  as recommended by Mr.  Steinitz,  he may play 
3  P-Q4  (Cols.  5-10) ;  or he may transpose the game into the Boden- 
Kieseritzky Gambit by  3  B-B4,  Kt x  P ;  4  Kt-B3.  If he plays a  straight- 
forward game,  the position becomes one that may occur in the French Defence,  where the King's Pawns are exchanged early,  and the Bishops and Knights brought gradually into action supported by the Rooks  (Cols. 
10-15).  This slow development permits considerable variety in the order and selection of moves.  It is hardly likely that the moves given in the last named columns will be made in the same order in ordinary practice. 
Exhaustive analysis is impossible in such positions,  and all that can be done is to indicate the general tendency of certain lines of play which hav^, 
been selected by analysts and players as the strongest on both sides.  fl It may be noted that in those variations where the Black Knight," 
after taking White's K  Pawn,  falls back to KB3  the position is frequently siinilar to that obtainable in the French Defence with the advantage of iDove ia band. 

1 

e 

7 
6 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 

Table  6.— PETROFF'S COUNTER ATTACK. 

1  P.K4,    P.K4; 
2 

KtxP     (1) 

KtxP  ' 

Q-K2 

Q-K2 

QxKt P-Q3 

P-Q4 

FKB3 

P.KB4 

Kt-Q2  ! 
Kt.QB3 

QPxKt BPxKt Kt-Q5  BPxP    (3) 

Q-Q3       (2)  PxP QPxP Kt-Q5 

PxP Kt-B3 

PxP B-Kt5ch 

2  Kt-KB3,    Kt- 

KB3. 

A     / 

P-Q4 

Q-K2? 

PxP P-Q4 

(6) 

P-K5 

P-Q3 

Kt-K5     (8) 

Kt-KB3 

Q-K2 

QxPch Kt-B4     (9) 

B-K2! 

KtxP B-B4 

B-K2     (10) 

P-B4 

(7) 

Kt-QB3 

B-K2 

0-0 

0-0 

B-Bl 

0-0 

Kt-K3        "^ 

Kt-B3+ 

KtxKt BPxKt B-Kt3   (11) 

Q-QB3  P-B3       (4)  K-Qsq B-QKt5  KtxKtch KtxKt Q-KKt3  PxKt     (5)  PxKt QxQoh BxPch PxP PxQ K-Qsq PxP KtxPch-f B-Q2-f B-Q2+ 

(1)  3  B-B4  transposes into the King's Bishop's Opening,  and Kt-B3  into the Three or Four Knights'  Game :  for  3  . . ,  P-Q3  see Cols.  11-20. 

<2)9..,Q-Qsq;  10  QPxP.  PxP ;  11  PxP.  B.K2  (if  11.  .,P-QB3:  12  Kt-B6ch 
^ins).     (C.  E.  R.) 

(3)  Or  9  Kt.Q5.   (Steinitz.) 

(4)  If  11  ..,  B-Q2;  12  KtxKtch,  PxKt;  13  QxKtP,  R-Qsq;  14  0-0,  (if) 
PxP;    15  B-KKt-5-l-. 

(5)  If  12  . . ,  Q X  Kt Black loses through  12  P x  P arid  13  B-Q3. 

(6)  If  4  Kt-KB3  Black can equalise hy  4  . .,  KtxP I  5  B-K2,  Q-Qsq. 

(7)  Or  7  Kt-R3  (if then)  P-Q4 ;     8  0-0,  B x  Kt ;    9  R-Ksq  + .     (C.  E.  R.) 

(8)  4  . . ,  Q.K2 ;  5  B.K2,  Kt-Kt5 ;  6  0-0,  Kt x  KP ;  7  R-Ksq :  or  6  . . ,  Kt-QB3 ; 
7  Kt X  P,  KKt X  P ;    8  R-Ksq,  &c.   (Steinitz.) 

(9)  If  5  . . ,  B-Kt5ch ;  6  K-Qsq,  P-Q4  (if  6. . ,  Kt-QB4,  7  B-Kt5) ;  7  P x  P en pas. 
P.KB4;"    8PxP,  QxP;    9KtxP+. 

no)  Or  6  . . ,  Kt-K3 ;    7  Kt x  Kt,  QP x  Kt ;    8  Kt-B3,  Kt-B3. 
|11)  The difference in favour of White is very slight.   (W.  W.) 

84  THE KiNGf'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table 
1   p. 

7.— PETRO] 
K4,    P-K4 

FP'S CO UNTER ATTACl KB  3,    Kt-KB 

5. 

;     2  Kt^ 

8. 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

8 

P-Q4 
PxP 

— 

KtxP 

(2) 

4 

P-K5 
Kt-K5 

B-Q3 
P-Q4 

«; 

QxP P-Q4 

KtxP B-K3 

(3) 

B-K2 

— 

fe-Q3 

P-QB4 

6 

PxPen pas Q-K^ 

(^) 

0-0 

00 

B-Kt5cli KtxQP Kt-Q3 

(5) 

0-0 

0-0 

B-Q2 

7 

B-KKt5 

0-0 

BxKt 

(8) 

P-QB4 

KtxB P-KB3 

B-K2 

PxB P-QB3  (10) 

KtxKt 

8 

B-KB4 

R-Ksq QKt-B3 

Kt-QB3 

0-0. 

Kt-B3 

Q-Bsq 

(6) 

P-KB3 

-(9) 

KtxKt P-QR3  (13) 

9 

Q-Q2 

(1) 

QKt-B3 

Kt-B4 

PxKt BxKtch 

0-0 

P-KB4 

BxKt  (11) 

QxB         ' 

10 

Q-R5 

B-B4+ 

PxB P-KB3 

P-KB4 

(7)r PxP     (12) 

Kt-B3      ■■" 

11 

Kt-K24 

BxP R-Ksqcb QxQ K-Qsq         ' 

la RxQ-f B-Kt5 

B.K2 

Kt-B3+ 

19 

(1)  Steinitz notes that White has hardly any advantage. 

(2)  If  3  ..,P-Q4;.4PxQP. 

(3)  5  P X  P  ?,  Kt-QB3 ;    6  0-0,  B-QB4  ;    7  P-B4,  B.K3  =  .    Steinitz supplies the following variations.    Campare with Cols.  13-15. 

(4)  6  0-0,  Kt-Q2;    7  P-KB4,  P-KB4 ;     8  Kt-Q2,  QKtxKti     9  BPxKt,  B-K2; 
10  Q-R5ch,  P.KKt3 ;     11  Q-R3,  Q-Q'2  =  .    (Mackenzie v.  Golmayo.) 

<5)6  ..,P-KB4;    7BxKt,  BPxB;    8  Q-R5ch-^- 
(6)  If  8  . .,  0-0;    9  KtxP,  BxKt;    10  QxB,  R-Ksq;     11  QxQ-h.     If  8  .., 
P-B3;    9Kt-Kt6-h. 

(7)If  10..,P-KKt3;    11  KtxKtP,  BPxKt;    12BxP.&C. 
(8)  Or  7  R-Ksq,  or Q-K2. 
(9)8  ..,P-KB4;  9  P-B3-f. 

(10)  Or  7  . . ,  B-K3 ;    8  P-B4,  P-KB4  &c. 

(Il)lf9  ,.,B-K3;    10P-KB4,  BxKt;    llBPxB&c. 

(12)If  10..,B-K3;   11  Q-R5 

(13)  8..,  PxP;     9QxP,  KKt-B3;    -10  R-Ksq ch,  B-K2;     11  Kt-B3,  P-QRSl 
12  B-R4.  p.QKt4;    13  B-Kt3,  Kt.Kt3 ;    14  B-Kt5  (if)  Q-Q3 ;    ISRxBch,    KxR;^ 

Table  8.— PETROFF'S COUNTER ATTACK. 

P.K4,  P-K4;    2  Kt.KB3,  Kt.KB3;    3KtxP,P'Q3; 
4  Kt.KB3,  KtxP;     5P-Q4,  P-Q4;     6B-Q3.. 

11 

iSita^ii m 

i^l m. rf& 

^^a'^P     ^P 

12 

18 

14 

15 

10 

11 

12 

18 

14 

Kt-QB3 
0-0! 

B-K2 
P-B4 

Q-Q3 
Q-R4 

(1) 

B-KKt5 
Kt-B3 
KtxKt   (2) 
PxKt PxP       (3) 
B-K4 !     (4) 

0-0 
QxBP BxKF BxB Kt-Qsq P-QR4  — 

B-K3 

R-Ksq Kt^BB P.B5 

0-0 
B-K3 

(5) 

(6) 
(7) 

(8) 

B.K2 
0-0 

0-0 
P-B4 

Kt-KB3 
PxP       (9) 

KtxP Kt-B3 

B.K3 
Kt-K5  ~ 
P-QB4  -- 

B-Q3 
0-0 

0-0 
P-B4 

B-K3  (10) 
Q-B2_(ll) 
P-KB4  (12) 
Q-Kt3  (13) 
PxP QxKtP P-B3 
BxKt 

(14) 

PxB Kt-Kt5 

B-KB4  (15) 
Kt-QB3-|- 

Kt-Q3?(16) 
0-0  (17) 
B-K2 

B-KB4  (18) 
0-0 
P-B3 
B-K3 
QKt-Q2 

Kt-Q2 
Q-B2 

P.KR3 
Kt-K5  + 

86  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Notes to Table  8. 

(1)  If  8  R-Ksq,  B-KKt5 ;    9BxKt.PxB;    lORxP,  BxKt;    llQxB.KtxP 

(Handbuch).    Compare Cols.  7-10. 

(2)  This seems needlessly to strengthen White's centre.  9  ..,  Kt-B3  is better. 
If  9..,  BxKt;    lOQxB,  KtxQP;    11  Q-Ktd.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(3)  If  10. . ,  0-0 ;    11  R-Ktsq followed by R.Ksq+ . 

(4)  11  BxBP,  0-0;  12  B-QKtS,  Q-Q4  (if  ..,  Q.Q3;  13  P-QR4  C.  E.  R.); 
13P-B4,  Q.KB4;    14BxKt,  PxB  «&o. 

(5)  If  8  . . ,  Kt-KB3  the same position may be brought about in the French Defence with Black to move.  [Thus:— 1  P-K4,  P-K3;  2  P-Q4,  P.Q4;  3  PxP,  PxP: 
4B-Q3,Kt-QB3;    5  Kt-KBS,  Kt-KB3 ;    6  0.0,B-K2;    7  P-QB4.] 

(6)  If9..,B.QKt6;  10BxKt,BxR;  llPxP+.  If9..,  P.B4;  10  Kt-BS. 
Mr.  Steinitz continues by  10  . . ,  Kt x  Kt,  to White's advantage.  Mr.  Ranken suggests 
10..,Kt-Kt5. 

(7)  Initiating an advance with the Pawns on Queen's side.  If  10  ...  P-QKtS; 
11Q.R4,  B-Q2;    12  B-QKtS,  Kt-QKtsq;    13  Kt-K5+.  (M.  C.  L) 

(8)  If  11  Kt-B3,  B-Kt5;  12  B-K3  (M.  C.  I.),  BxPI to reHeve Black's game. 
C E.  R.) 

(9)  If  9  P.B5,  P.QKt3 ;  10  P.QKt4  ? .  P-QB4 ;  11  P x  KtP,  RP x  P :  12  P x  P. 
QxP+.    (M.C.I.) 

(10)  Or  8  . . ,  P-B3  providing a  retreat for the Bishop in case of  9  P-B5 :  Salvioli continues by  9  Q-Kt3,  and the Handbuch by  9  Q-B2.  8  . . ,  Kt-KB3,  as in other cases, 
works into the French Defence  :  9  B-KKt5,  B-KS ;  10  Q-Kt3,  PxP;  11  B x  P t 
B X  B ;    12  Q x  B,  Kt-B3 ;    13  Kt-B3.    (Morphy v.  Barnes.) 

(11)  Better than Jaenisch's move  9  Q-Kt3.  If9PxP,BxP;  10Kt-QB3.KtxKt; 
llPxKt,  P-QB4;    12BxPch. 

(12)  Or  9  . . ,  Kt.KB3 ;    (if)  10  Q.Kt3,  Kt.QB3 1 

(13)  Mr.  Steinitz proposes  10  P-B6  foUowed immediately by P-QKt4. 

(14)  From a  correspondence game between Pesth and Paris.  If  11  . . ,  Kt-B3 
(M.  C.  I.);  12  QxKt,  PxB;  13  Kt-K5  (Monck),  Q-B3,  &c.  If  11  ..,  BxPch: 
followed by  12  . . ,  B-Q4 ;    then  13  B x  P I 

(15)  If  13  ..,B-Bsq;    14QxR,  Q-Kt3;    15KtxKPI 

(16)  If  6  . . ,  P-QB4  ? ;  7  P-B4,  P-B4  (if  7  . . ,  Kt-QB3,  or P  x QP ;  8  0-0,  &o.) ; 
8  0-0,  PxBP;  9  BxP,  Kt-QB3;  10  P-Q5,  Kt.R4;  11  Kt-BB,  KtxB; 
12  Q.R4ch,  B-Q2;    l3  QxKt-}-. 

(17)  Or  7  Kt-B3 1  to be followed by Kt.K2.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(18)  8Kt^K5.0-0:    9P.KB4+.    (M.C.I.) 

(Cable Q.—PETROFF'S COUNTER ATTACK. 

I P  K4.  P 

4;     2  Kt.KB3,  Kt-KBS,     SKtxP.  P-QS; 
4  Kt X  P  (1),  K X  Kt. 

10 

11 

B-B4ch 

18 

P-Q4 

^/ 

P Q.K24- 

P-Q4 

B-K3 

P-KKt3 

B-K3 

B-Kt3 

(2) 

BxBch KxB Kt-B3 
■     B-Kt2-P-Q5 

B-K3 

(3) 

B-Q2 

Kt-B3 
PxP P-Q4 
K-B2 

B-B4ch B-K3 

B-KKt5  (4) 
-     P-KR3 

Kt-B3 
B-K2        " 

BxBch KxB 

— 

0-0 
B-K2 

P-Q5 
B-Q2 

B-R4 
"    P-KKt4 

B-QB4 
R-Ksq      " 

KtxP KtxKt P-QB3 
QKt-Q2 

P-K5? 
PxP4- 

B-Kt3 
"    R-Ksq P-K5    — 

Q-Kt4ch K-B2 

— 

Q-Kt3cb P-Q4-B-Q3 
B-B4  + 

QxKt P-K5  + 

■ 

(1)  An invention of Mr.  Cochrane's Mr.  Staunton notes in the Praxis that the peculiarity of this attack is that if White attempts to set up any very fierce,  assault upon the Black King he will assuredly fail.    The proper course appears to be for , 
White to develop his forces,  castle on Queen's side and then push on with his King's, 
wing Pawns. 

(2)If6PxP,  B.Q3;    7  0-0,  R-Bsq  ;    8  P-Q4,  K-Ktsq.    (Steinitz.) 

(3)  Or  6  . . ,  B.KKt5 1 ;    7  P-KBS,  B-KS.    ( Wormald.) 

(4)  White's best procedure probably is to play B.Q3  and  0-0  as soon as possible. 

dS THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

SECTION Y. 

PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 
.1    P.K4,    P.K4:       2    Kt.KB3.    P.Q3. 

THE idea of thi^  defence,  introduced by Philidor  (1749),  is to prolecl the advanced King's Pawn from the adverse Knight before proceeding with Greco's Counter Gambit,  P-KB4.  The second player limits the action of his King's Bishop,  and submits to a  cramped position in the hope of establishing a  strong centre of Pawns.  The first player,  however,* 
having the move,  commences an attack on his own account by  3  P-Q4,  or 
3  B-B4  (threatening  4  Kt-Kt5).  Against the latter  3  ...,  P-KB4  is unsatis- 
factory, as was proved by Allgaier in  1795  (Note  1,  Col.  6).  Cols.  1-3  show the consequences if Black disregards his opponent's move  3  P-Q4.  ••  The weakness of the Philidor,"  says Mr.  Potter  (1885),  "  consists in the fact of 
8  . . . ,  KP X  QP being apparently incumbent on Black,  whereby all his means of development become paralysed.  Could that capture be rendered un- 
necessary his development though slow would be assured,  and the future of the game would be such as skill,  hand in hand with patience,  might hopefully face."  Cols.  8-10  give various trials,  showing on the whole that, 
as Mr.  Potter adds,  the inferiority which results is not very pronounced. 
He demonstrated in Land and Water that the line of play given in Col.  8 
permits numerous variations,  from which we may conclude that it has not yet reached its final form. 

Mr.  "Sleinitz has recommended as the best defence in the Ruy Lopez Knight's game  ^Sec.  XV.)  a line of play leading into the Philidor defence given in Col.  5,  which has therefore had more attention bestowed upon it ; 
the result being,  as far as the Philidor is concerned,  a decided preference for the variation in Col.  6,  in which  (after  3  P-Q4,  P v  P)  Black's Pawn is retaken with the Knight instead of the Queen. 

The first player has the option of turning the game into a  position brought about in the Vienna Opening by  1  P-K4,  P-K4  ;  2  Kt-QB3,  Kt- 
KB3  :  8  Kt-B3,  P-Q3,  The same position may occur also in the Three Knight's Game by transposition of moves.  A similar result may follow 
3  B-B4,  which also leads into the Hungarian Defence.  As it somewhat confuses the issue to place all these variations in the Philidor proper,  we have relegated them to the above named openings,  in which they will be fouiid in their places.  The great leeson of the Philidor is the relative strength of  (he attack  8  P-Q4,  and the counter attack  3  ...,  P-KB4,  after and in conjunction,  with P»K4. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

39' 

Table  10.— PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

P.K4,    P.K4;      2    Kt-.KB3.    P.QS. 

i iSIASMil^ 

10 

XI P-KB4 

Kt-B3t    (1) 

PxQP QxP PxP B-KKt5 

Kt.KB3 

KtxP BK2 

B-QB4 

Kt-B3 

QK3 

Kt-QR4 

B.Kt5ch 

^^B2l     (2) 

Bxktf Kt-KB3  (3) 

PxKP KtxP Kt X  Kt PxKt Kt-Kt5 

P-Q4 

P^KO B-B4 

KtxKP B-K2 

Q-R5ch P-KKt3 

Q-K6 

PxKP BPxP Kt-Kt5 

P-Q4 
P-K6 

0-0 

(4J B-QB4    (5) 

KtxKP  (6) 

Blil Q-R5cb P-KKt3 

Q-K5 

Kt-KB3 

Kt X  Ktch BxKb Q  Kt3  -^ 

0-0-PxP QxP B.Q2 
B-QB4 

Kt-QB3 
QK3 

(7) 

(8) 

B-K2 
Q-QKt3  + 

(9) 

Kt-QB3(10) 
B-QKt5 
B:Q2  ' 

BxKt BxB    (11) 
B-Kt5   (12) 
Kt-B3 
Kt-B3 
B:K2      " 
0-0-0  — 
0-0     - 

(13) 

40  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Notes to Tablb  10. 

(1)  Zukertort's Attack.    Col.  3  gives the older form. 

(2)  If  10  . .,  P-B3 ;    11  KtxKtch. 

(3)  If PxKP;     5  QKtxP,  P-Q4;     6  KtxP,  PxKt;     7  Q.K5ch,  P-KKtS, 

8  Kt X  P,  Kt.KB3 ;    9  Q-K5ch + .    If  4  . . ,  Kt-QB3 ;    6  B-QKt5,  P x  KP ;    6  QKt x  P,  ^ 
P-Q4;    7  KtxP,  PxKt;    SKtxKt,  PxKt;    9BxPch+. 

(4)  Englisch v.  Pitschel continued  12  B-R6,  B-B3;     13  P-K7!    and wins the excnange.    Black should play  11  . . ,  R-Bsq. 

(5)  If  6  ..,  Kt-KR3  ;     7  Kt-QB3,  P-B3;    8  KKtxKP,  PxKt  (if  8  ..,  BxP; 

9  B x  Kt,  P x  B  ;     10  Q-Q4) ;    9  Q-R5ch,  P-KKt3  ;    10  Q-K5,  R-Ktsq ;    11  B.KEt5, 
(Lowehthal),  B-Kt2  1    12  P-K7  1,  Q-Q2;    13  Q-B4+. 

(6)  If  7  Kt.B7,  Q-B3  ;  8  B.K3,  P-Q5.  (Barnes v.  Morphy.)  A game between Messrs.  Goldschmidt and Esling was continued  :— 7  Kt-QB8,  Q-KB3  ?  ;  8  B-Kt5ch, 
P-B3  ;  9  0-0,  B x  KP  ?  (Steinitz gives P.K6  as best) ;  10  B-QB4,  P-K6.  (Again the Bishop cannot be taken on account of  11  QKtxP.)  11  QKt-K4,  PxKt;  12  KtxB, 
P X  Pch ;  13  K-Rsq,  B.Kt3  ;  14  B-KKtS,  Q-Kt3  ;  15  R x  P,  Kt-Q2  ;  16  Q x  Ktch and mates in four more moves. 

(7)  Mr.  Ranken notes that he has tried  4  B-QB4  advantageously.  It transposes the opening into the Centre Gambit,  in which the position is reached by  1  P-K4, 
P-K4;    2  P-Q4,  PxP;    3  Kt-KB3,  P.Q3;    4  B-QB4,  Kt-KB3  or B.K2. 

(8)  White may also play  5  B-KB4,  Kt-QB3;  6  Q-Q2,  Kt-B3;  7B-Q3,  B.K2; 
8  Kt-B3,  0-0;  9  0-0-0 +  .  5  B-K3  results in a  similar position,  with the reconi- 
mendation that it does not prevent the subsequent advance of the KBP :  in this case Steinitz prefers  7  Kt-B3,  to avoid exchanges.  For variations arising through the first player bringing out his QKt see Vienna Game.  If  6  B-KKt5,  131ack may reply by  5  . . ,  P-KB3,  Kt-KB3,  or Kt-QB3,  suggested by Mr.  Wayte.  Tho last may be continued by  6  B x  Q  ?,  as given in Cook's Synopsis,  or by  6  Q-B3,  P-B3 ; 
7  B-R4,  P.Q4  I ;  8  Q-K3,  &c. 

(9)  The variation is brought into a  form of the Centre Gambit unfavourable to the second player. 

(10)  Or  4  . . ,  Kt-KB3 ;  5  Kt-B3  may be played at this point. 

(11)  Or6..,PxB;  7  B.Kt5,  Q-Ktsq.    (Steinitz.) 

a2)  Or7B-K3I 

(13)  7  ..,  P-B3;  8  B.R4  (B-K3  is preferred by Steinitz),  Kt.R3  ;  9  Kt.B3, 
Q-Q2;  10  0-0,  B-K2;  11  QR-Qsq,  0-0 ;  12  Q-B4ch,  (if)  R-BS ;  13  P.K6+.  (See Morphy's Games,  p.  64.)  Black may play  7  ..,  B-K2  ;  (if)  8  QxKtP,  B-B3 ; 
9QxR,  BxQ;  10  BxQ,  BxKtP;  11  BxP,  K-Q2;  12  B-RS,  BxR;  13  B-B3, 
BxB;   14KtxB,  R-Ksq;    15  Kt-Q2,  P.B4,  &c.    (Steinitz.) 

Table  11.— PHILIDOR'S DEFENCE. 

P.K4,   P.K4;      2   Kt-K B  8  ,   P-QS. 

7                     »                    9  10 

KFKB3  B-Kt5  ?  KFQ2        ' 

PxP      (5)  PxP B-QB4    (7) 

Kt X  P B  X Kt Kt-KtS PK5               B-QB4  QxB B-Kt3 

QxP P-QB4        '     P-QB3    (6)  PxP PxP Q-K2ch B-QKtSch        0-0  B-QB4  QxP B-K2  B-Q2  P-Q4  Q-Q2 !  B-K3 

KtKt5  P K6  B-Q3  Q-QKt3  Kt-B3 

Kt-QR3  BxB      (4)     Kt-B4  P-QB3  Kt-K2 

QKt-B3  PxPeh B-K3    —        P-QR4  B-K3 

10 

Q-Qsq KxP B-Kt6—        B-Q3  Kt-B3 

B-B4  (2)     KtxB     —  0-0+  Q'QB  — 

Kt-B3  Kt-KB3!—  —(8) 

Q-B4  + 

0-0         (3) 

(1)  If  3  B-B4,  B-K2 ;  4  P-Q4,  PxP;  5  Kt x  P,  Kt-KB3 ;  6  Kt.QB3,  0-0.  See Three Knights'  Game  (Col.  4)  for continuation  :  if  3  . .,  P-KB4  ?  4  P-Q4,  PxKP 
(Salvioli gives  4  . . .  P x  QP ;  5  Kt-Kt5,  Kt-KR3  ;  6  Kt x  RP or  0-0  I)  5'  Kt x  P. 
PxKt;  6  Q-R5ch-|-.  See also Table  4.  If  3  ..,  P-QB3;  4  P-Q4.  P-Q4 ; 
5  P X  QP,  P-K5  ;  6  Kt-K5.  PxP.  If  3  . . ,  Kt-KB3 .  4  Kt-Kt6.  Macdonnell v. 
Gunsberg runs  3  . . ,  Kt-QB3 ;  4  P-B3.  B-Kt5 ;  5  P-Q4  (Q-Kt3  !).  P x  P  ;  6  Q-Kt3, 
Q-Q2;  7BxPch,  QxB;  8QxP,  K-Q2;  9QxR,  BxKt;  lOPxB,  QxBP; 
11  R-Bsq?,  P-Q6  and wins.    The Col.  from the fifth move is Paulsen's attack. 

(2)  Or  9  B-K3  may be played.    Or  9  Q-K3.  ^Wayte.) 

(3)  If  10  . . ,  P-QB3 ;     11  R-Qsq gives White a  fine attack.    (Steinitz.) 

(4)  7.., PxP:  8KtxP,Q-K2;  9BxBch,KtxB;  10O-O,QxKt;  llR-Ksq, 
Kt-K4;    10Q-R5ch+. 

(5)  If  4  Kt-QB3,  QKt-Q2.  See Note  1,  p.  43.  If  4  B-KKt5,  B-K2  (or  4  . . ,  P x  P first.) 

(6)  If5  ..,B-K3;    6  B-Q5,  Kt-Bd  ;    7B-Kt5,Q-Q2;    8  Kt-BS-f . 

(7)  Or  4  P-QB3 1     which threatens B-B4,  followed by Q.Kt3 :    if  4 
^B2 !    (bettar than  5  B*Q3  on account of the reply  5  . , ,  P-Q4.    W.  V 

(8)  If  9  . . ,  Kt.K4 ;    10  Kt x  Kt,  P x  Kt ;    11  Q-Kt5ch -f .    (Fraser.) 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING, 

I SECTION VI. 

THE THREE KNIGHTS'   GAMES. 

1P-K4,P.K4;     2Kt.KB3,    Kt.KBSi SKt-BS. 
or  1  P.K4.  P.K4;    2  Kt-KBS.  Kt-QBS;    3  Kt-BS. 

THE advaoitage to the first player of an early development of the Queen's Knight has been generally appreciated by advanced Chess- 
players. It has led to the introduction of several modern openings, 
notably the Three and Four Knights'  Games,  and the Vienna Opening ivith its numerous variations.  1?he idea springs from an old maxim : 
•«  Move your pieces out before your Pawns :  or you may be prevented from forming a  strong attack by the intervention of your own Pawns.'* 
There was at one time an objection to the move on account of its 
*'  apparent tameness."  It attacked nothing,  and seemed to give the second player an opportunity of assuming the offensive.  Staunton, 
however,  pointed out in the Praxis that  "  there is perhaps no one legitimate opening where the defence would not prove successful,  if the defending player were allowed an extra move ;  "  while Walker,  alluding to tljie Steinitz'  Gambit  (in BeWs Life)  showed that  2  Kt-QB3  prepared the way for one of the most daring and chivalrous of modern openings. 
The move,  in fact,  strengthens the first player's game for either attack or  ^defence. 

The  **  Three Knights' "  has been selected by first rate players for some of their most important contests.  The attack is on the centre Pawns,  and it is questionable whether the second player should allow them to be broken up or resort to the Four Knights'  Game.  The idea of playing  3  ...,  P-KKt3  to follow with B-KKt2,  which was one of the special points of this opening  (Cols.  6-8)  has not worked out so satisfac- 
torily as its originators anticipated. 

.  In several variations the positions are similar to those in the Philidor Defence,  to which opening we append it.  The Four Knighta* 
Opening leads to a  totally different game,,  moire akin to the Ruy Lopes' 
Enight's Game. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.  i$ 

Table  12.— THE THREE KNIGHTS*    GAME, 

1  P.K4.   P.K4:     2  Kt-KBS..   Kt-KB8;    'S Kt-BS. 

B-KtS     (9)»' 
KtxP BxKt        ' 
KtxP    (4)  QPxB WM\ — •  p:q3 ^ 

B-Q3  B-QB4    (7)    Kt-B3 

P.Q4 

(1) 

PxP QxP 

(2) 

B-K2 
B-K3 

(3) 

0-0 
0-0-0 

Kt-B3 
Q-Q2 

P-QR3 
B-Q3  + 

10 

11 

0-0        (6)  OU KtxP P-B4  Q.Q  0-0  B-Q3 

B-Kto p.B4       (6)    KtxP Kt-KBS Kt-B3  KKt-K2         KtxKt  0-0-)- 

P-B3  Ql{t3  FQ4  0^ 

P-KR3+         K-Rsq I  BxP      (8) 

Kt-B3  QxB P-KB4+         Kt.QB3 
Q-Qsq B.B4   — 

Kt-R3  — 

(1)  This variation may arise in the Philidor Defeuce by  1  P.K4,  P.K4 ;  2  Kt.KB8, 
P.Q3;    3P-Q4,Kt-KB3;    4  Kt-B3. 

(2)  Or  4  Kt-Q2,  followed by P-QB3,  if,  and when necessary. 

(3)  Mason against Bird played  5  B-Q2,  which is a  form of the Philidor defence, 

(4)  The Philidor form is  1  P.K4,  P.K4;  2  Kt.KB3,  P.Q3;  3  P.Q4,  PxP; 
.4  Kt X  P,  Kt-KB3 ;    5  Kt-QB3. 

(5)  6  ..,KtiB3;  VKtxKt,  PxKt;  8  0-0,  0-0;  9  P-B4,  P-Q4;  10  P-KS. 
Boh  ;  11  K-Rs^,  Kt-Kt5 ;  12  Q-Ksq,  P-B4 ;  13  Kt-Qsq,  B-K3 ;  14  Kt.K3,  Kt.R3 
(Judd V.  Blackbtime.) 

(6)  Steinitz prefers  7  . .,  P-Q4,  but the development is still in White's favour. 

(7)  Better than  6  B-KB4,  which interferes with the advance of White's KB Pawn. 
(C.E.R.)  The Philidor form is  1  P-K4,  P-K4 ;  2  Kt-KB3,  P-Q3 1  3  B.B4.  B.K2; 
4P-Q4.  PxP;    5  KtxP,  Kt-KBS:    6  Kt-QB3. 

(8)  Or9B-Q3,  PxKt;    lOBxP,  Kt.Q2. 

(9)  If  3  . . ,  B-B4,  White may play  4  B-QB4  (Giuoco PJano),  4  P-Q4  (Scotch game), 
©r  4  KtxP.   (Petroff.) 

44  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENmc. 

Table   13.-^THE THREE KNIGHTS'    GAME. 

1   P-K4,  P.K4;     2  Kt-KBS,  Kt-QBS;     8  Kt-B3. 
6  7  8  9  10 

^ 

1 

10 
11 

P-KKt3  B-B4       (8) 

P-Q4  S-Kt5     (7)    KtxP! 

FxP        ~  B-Kt2  KtxKt BxPch KtxP    (1)  P-Q3  PQ4  KxB B1U2  Kt-KB3  B-Q3  KtxKt       ' 

B-K3       (2)  BxKt PxKt P.Q4 

Kt-B3     (3)  QPxB BxP Q-B3ch(10) 

KtxKt B-K2^  KtxP B-Q3 (9)     K-Ktsq  (11) 

KtPxKt OO *     KtxP Kt-K2  Kt-Kt5 

P~K5  0-0         (6)     KtxKt  0-0  Q-Q2 

Kt-Ktsq kFK2  BxKt P-QB3  Kt-K2 

P-KB4  BB3    ~        BR6  Q-R5+  P-KR3-f P-Q3       (4;  p.Q4    —         BxKtP Q-B3  QK2 

B-Q2  Q-K2 

0-0-0-f  (5)  R-QKtsq  + 

(1)  5  Kt-Q5,  B-Kt2 ;    6  B-KKt5,  QKt-K2 ;    7  Kt x  QP.   (Rosenthal v.  Steinitz.) 

(2)  6  KtxKt,  KtPxKt;  7  B-Q3,  Kt-K2 ;  8  0-0,  P-Q3;  9  P-B4,  0-0; 
10  P-KR3,  P-KR3 ;     11  B-K3,  K-R2 ;     12  Q-Q2,  &c. 

(3)  6  KKt.K2;    7  Q-Q2,  0-0;     8  0-0-0,  P-Q3;     9  B-K2,  B-KS;     10  P.B4+. 

Steinitz proposes  7  P-KR4,  P-KR3  ;    8  P-B4,  &c. 

(4)  If9  ..,R-Ktsq;    10B-B4,  RxP?;    11  B-KtS,  &c. 

(5)  If  11  ..,  PxP',     12PxP,  BxPorKt-K2;     13  B-QB4.    (M.C.I.) 

(6)  Or  8  Q-Q2,  to follow with  0-0-0,  and attack with Pa%vns on King's side. 

(7)  4  B-B4,  B-Kt2;  5  P-Q3,  Kt-B3;  6  B-K3,  P-Q3;  7  P-KR3,"P.KR3; 
8  Q-Q2,  Q-K2 ;    9  0-0,  P-KKt4  ;     10  Kt-R2.    (Lee v.  Burn.) 

(8)  If3B-Kt5;  4Kt-Q5,Kt-B3;  5KtxB,KtxKt;  6P-B3I Kt-B3;  7B-Kt5. 
A game Berger v.  Frolich runs :— 3  . . ,  P-Q3  I  4  B-Kt5,  B-Kt5  ;  5  Kt-Q5,  KKt-K2  ; 
6P-B3,P-QR3;  7  B-R4,  P-QKt4;  8  B-Kt3,  Kt.R4 ;  9KtxKP,BxQ;  lOKt-BSch, 
PxKt;    11  B mates. 

(9)  Or  7  Kt-K2,  P-QB3 ;    8  P.KB4,  B-B2.     (C.  E.  R.) 

(10)  6   ..,  Kt-Kt3;      7    B.QB4,    P-Q3;     8   R-Bsq,    B-KS;     9  BxB,    PxB 
10Q.Kt4  +  . 

(11)  Or7'K-K8q.    (Handbuch.) 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.  45- 

SECTJON VI i. 

STAUNTON'S OPENING. 

1   P-E4,   P.K4;     2  Kt-KB8,   Kt-Q B  S  ;      8  P-BS.^ 

THE Handbuch styles this development the English Game.  We call it Staunton's Opening/  to distinguish it from that commencing 
1  P-QB4,  which is also known as the English Opening.  The move 
8  P-QB8  dates from the Gottingen MS.  Mr.  Staunton thought highly of it :  he played it iii his match with Harrwitz,  and considered that analysers had not done justice to it.  A year or two later in the Handbook 
(1847)  he prophesied that it would attain a  higher place in the category of legitimate openings than had previously been assigned to it.  He did not take into account the superior claims of Ktj-QBS,  which has superseded the Pawn's move,  and has,  in fact,  taken the plaxje in public opinion that Staunton prognosticated for the  *♦  QBP one"  gaiiie,:  ...^        » 

The object of the move  8  P-QB8  is to turn the op&niig into the Buy Lopez'  Knight's Game,  or the Giuoco Piano,  according .  io Black's play. 
But the second player is not obliged to adopt either alternative.  He may base his action on the purely preparatory character of tVh^e's mov4  and commence a  counter attack by  3  ...,  P-KB4,  or  3  ...,  P-QC^.  The fofener line of play is treated in Cols.  1-5.  It is the Philidor Deft^e,  with t|ie advantage of having the QKt out.  This counter attack is mdtby the fira^ 
player with  4  P-Q4,  which,  as has been shown in the Phindor,  is thl|. 
strongest reply.  In Staunton's Opening it is made more powerful by^i the preliminary advance of the QB Pawn,  and White ought to obtain the superiority.  This is not the case with the counter attack springing tJom 
8...,P-Q4.  ' 

According to Mr.  Potter  "the most powerful'enemy of Staunton's attack"  is  3...,  Kt-KB3  (Cols.  14-20).  All these variations lead to curious and remarkable positions,  upod which much attention has been bestowed by analysts and players.  The result shows itself in the subtle character of the play on both sides,  some of the moves being so far under the surface as to be exceptions to the ordinary rules of development. 

The defence is diflSicult for routine players,  and the opening is con- 
sequently useful for occasional practice by those who are ac^u^inted with its peculiarities. 

ia THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENINO. 

Table  14.— STAUNTON'S OPENING. 

1  P-K4,  P.K4;     2Kt.KB3,.Kt.QB8;     3  P-BS,  P.B4(1)^ 

*  P-Q4(2). 

ft  ■  *  M Will  ^  lii i    i 

11 

8 

•    53(581 

F3<P 

6  Kt-KtS Kt-Ktsq 

7  KtxKP Kt-KBS 

8  B-Q3 
KtxP Q    Kt-Kt5 

10 

12 

18 

Kt-KB3 

KtxP KtxKt yx Q-R5ch K.Q2 
BxKt P.KKt3 
Q-Kt4oh i:Bi— 

QKt.K2 
B-QKt5ch FB3       (6) 
PxQBP Kt5xP B-QB4 ! 
Q-Q2       (6) 

(i) 

PxKP BPxP Kt-Kt6 

P-Q4! 
P.K6    (dia) 
Kt-K4     (7) 

QQ4 

Q-Q3 

Kt-QR3 

P-B3! 

B-KB4    (8) 

Kt-Q6ch BxKt Kt-R3 ! 
B-Kt5 

Q-Q8 
Q-R5ch P-KKt3 
Q-R3    (dia) 

QxB Kt-B7 

Kt-R3 
KtxR ECBTIS) 

PxKP? 

KtxP Kt.B8 

B-KKt5 

P-Q3     (10) 

KtxKt PxKt Kt-Q2 

FQi P-B3-f THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.- 

47 

Notes to Table  14. 

(1)  Ponziani's Counter Attack.  If  3  . . ,  P-Q3 ;  4  B-Kt5,  B-Q2 ;  5  P-Ql,  K^B3. 
The position may arise in the Ruy Lopez'  Knight's Game,  by  3  B-Kt5,  P-Q3; 
4  P-Q4,  B-Q2 ;    6  P-B3,  Kt-B3. 

(2)  If  4  PxP?  P-Q3;  6  P-Q4,  P-K5;  6  Kt.Kt5,  BxP;  7  P-Q5,  Kt.K4; 
SKtxKP,  BxKt;  9  Q-R4ch,  «S:c. :  if  5  B-Kt5,  B x P ;  6P-Q4,PxP;  7KtxP,&o. 
If  5  P-KKt4,  P-KR4 ;  6  Kt-Ktsq,  P x  P  (or Q-R5 1  C.  E.  R.) ;  7  Q x  P,  KKt-K2 ; 
7B.Q3,  P-KKt3  +  .     If  4  B-Kt5,  P x KP ;    5BxKt,  QPxB;    6  Kt x P,  Q-Kt4  + . 

(3)  Dr.  Schmidt's variation.  The defence  4  . . ,  P-Q3  was given by E.  Morphy. 
If  5  B-QKt5,  PxKP;  6  KtxP,  PxKt;  7  BxKtch,  PxB;  8  Q-R5ch,  K-Q2; 
9  Q-B5ch,  K-K2 ;  10  Q-Kt5ch,  K-Q2 ;  11  Q-B5ch,  K-K2 ;  drawn by perpetual check :  or  8  . . ,  KK2 ;  9  B-Kt5ch,  Kt-B3 ;  10  P x  P,  Q-Q4  ,  11 B-R4,  B-R3  and the Pawn at QB3  is a  disadvantage to White. 

(4)  Mr.  Fraser continues by  14  Q-QB4ch I,    K-Q2 ;    15  B x  P + . 

(5)  Or  6  . . ,  B.Q2 ;    7  Q-Kt3,  P-B3. 

(6)  The Handbuch plays  8  . . ,  P x  P ;    9  Kt x  P,  P-Q4 1 

is given by Mr.  Ranken. 

<7)  7   ..,  B-B4;     8  KtxKP,  B-K2; 

10B-K2+.    8..,Q-Q2 
9  Kt-Kt3,  BxP;     10  B.Q3.    Compai* 

(Wonnald.) 

and Black is considered Cols.  2-3,  p.  39 

(8)  Or  10  P-KB4  ! .  P x  P en pas ;    11  B-KB4,  PxP,  &c. 

(9)  14Q-R4,  B-B4:    15  0-0,BxKP;    16B.K2,K.K2; 
to have the advantage. 

(10)  If6..,B-K2;  7B.Kt5,  0-0;  8  Q-Kt3ch,  P.Q4 ;  9KtxKt,PxKt;  10  BxP, 
B-K3;    11  BxR,  QxB;    12  Kt-R3-f-.     Rosenthal v.  Anderssen played  12  Kt-Q2 
which was continued thus :— 12  . . ,  B-Q3 ;     13  P-KR3  ?    Kt-R4 ;     14  B-K3,  Kt-B6 
15  BxKt.  BxB;     16  0-0-0?,  P.QR4;     17  P-R3?(a),    P.R5 ;     18  Q-R2,  Q.R3 
19  KR-Ksq,  P-B41;     20  P-B4,   PxQP;      21   K-Ktsq,  PxP;      22  RxP,  B.B4 
23  K-Rsq,  BxKt;     24  RxP,  B-K3;     25  R  (Q4)xB,  P-B6;     26  R-Q6,  QxR 
27RxQ,  BxQ;    28KxB,  RxP;    29  K-Ktsq,  R x QKtPch :    30  K-Rsq,  RxP 
31  R-QB6,  R-Kt6 ;      32  P-R4,  P-R4 ;      33  K-Ktsq,  R-Kt5  and wins. 
(a)   White's  17th move should have been P-QR4.    (Handbiich.) 

(Col.  3.) 

(Col.  4.) 

laAPr-**  ** 

^x^  X  ^s<i WM.       mm,  2t After White's  7th move. 

After White's  10th moye. 

48  THE KING'S ENIGHTS OPENING. 

Tabli  16.— STAUNTON'S OPENING. 

9 
10 
II 

1  P.K4,  P.K4;     2  KtKBS.  Kt-QBS;     3  P-BS,  P.Q4; 
4B.Kt6,  PxP(l);     BKtxP,  Q-Q4. 

6  t a  9  10 

Q-R4  BxKtch^ 

KKt-K2  (2)  FxB        ^ 

KtxKt PKB4  Q-R4 

KtxKt PxPenpas B-K3  Kt-K2 

0-0         (8)     KtxP(B6)    B-B4  Kt-B4 

B.Q2  B-Q3  P-QR3  Q-Q3  B-K3 

B-Ksq R-Ksq B-K2  !    (5)    BxB QKt-R3  (8) 

0-0-0  0^0  Kt-Kt3  QxB      (7)     Kt-Bl BxP BxKt  0-0        (6)  Kt-K3 

P.QR8+         FxB KtxKt QxKP QPxKt Q-KR4    (4)  BxKt     (9) 

<1)  Mr.  Wayte suggests  4  . . ,  P.B3 ;  (if)  5  Kt x  P,  P x  Kt ;  6  Qch,  K-K2 ;  7  B x  Kt, 
P X  B ;  8  Q X  KPch,  K-B2,  &c. :  if  6  Q-R4,  KKt-K2  and the position is that reached by i  Q-B4,  P.B3 ;    5  B-KtS,  KKt-K2. 

(2V6..,B.Q2;  7KtxB,KxKt;  8  0-0,  B-QS  (Fraser) ;  or  8  B x  Ktch,  P x  B ; 
9  Kt-R3.    {Eandbuch.) 

(8)  If  8  B-B4,  Q-KKt4. 

(4)  Continued  12  P-KKtS,  B-Kt5 ;  13  P.Q4,  B-BG ;  14  Q-Q3,  QR-Ksq ;  15  B- 
K8?    R-K5;    16  Q-Bsq,  B-R6 ;    17  Kt-Q2,  R x  RP and wins.    (Zukertort.) 

(6)  If9B-B4,  Q-K5ch;    10K.B2,B.K3;    11P.Q3,  Q-B4I 

(6)  If  10  ..,  B-Q2;  11  B.B4,  B-B4ch  (if  11  ..,  Q.Q3;  12  Q-Kt3);  12  P.Q4, 
Kt X  P ;    13  P X  Kt,  B X  Pch ;    14  K-Rsq,  Q.QB4  ;    16  Q-Kt3 + .    (Fraser.) 

(7)  If now  10  Q X  KP,  P-B3 ;    11  Q-B4,  Kt-Q4  winning a  piece. 
(6)  lf9Kt.K3,Q.Q6+. 

.  (9)  12  Q X  B,  Q-Q6 ;  13  Q-R4,  B.B5 ;  14  Q-Qsq,  and though White has a  little lihe worst,  yet with Bishops on different colours he will be able to draw.  (C.  E.  R.) 
IIWQxPch.K-Qsq;    16  QxRch,  K.Q2+.    (Fraser.) 

I 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12 

Table  16.— STAUNTON'S OPENINa 

1P.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt-KBS,  Kt-QBS;    3P 
11  12  13  14 

P-Q4 
Q-R4 

PxP KtxP Q-Q4 
KtxKt PxKt B-B4 

Q-Q2 
0-0 

Kt-B3     (1) 
P-Q3or4  + 

Kt-B3 
P-Q4       (6) 

P-B3 
B-Kt5 

P-Q4? 
B-QKt5 

(7) 

KKt-E2(dia) 
P-Q3       (2) 

B-K3 
Q-Kt3 

B-Q2 
Q-B2 

P-QR3 
B X  Etch 

(3) 

KtxKP(8) 
KtxP B-Q2 
KtxB     (9) 

P-QR3 
B-R4 

QxKt 
0-0 

KtxB QKt-Q2 

P-QKt4 
B-Kt3 

Kt-Q3 
BxKt Q-Q2 
Q-B2 

B-K3 
0-0! 

(4) 

R-Qsq 
0-0 

Q-Q2 
Kt^Ksq--(5) 

QxB R-Ksqch B-K2 
Q-K2 

0-0 
B-B4 

KR-Ksq. 

(Col.  12.) 

fag  "^r- 

QB8. 
15 

KtxKP P-Q5 

B^i PxKt BxPch(lO) 

K-K2 

KtPxP(ll) 

Q-R4 

P-KB4 

QKt-Q2 

OO  " 

KtxKt PxKt QxKP P-Q4     (12) 

QxKP R-Ksq QxRch QxQch ExB-f- 

After Black's  5th mova. 

00  THE KING'S KNIGHT.'S U^ENING. 

Notes to Table  16. 

(1)  8  ..,  B-Q3;  9  B-Kt5?  PxB;  10  QxKPch  (Janssens v.  Brien)  Kt.TC2; 
llQxB,P.QB3;  12P-Q3.  0-0;  13  B-KS,  B-Kt2 ;  U QxP,  P-QB4;  15  Q-B3, 
QBxP+. 

(2)  See Diagram.  6  0-0,  B-Q2  (if P  x P ;  7  Q x  KP,  B-B4  r  8  B x  Ktch,  &c.) ; 
7P-Q3,  P-QR3;  BBxKt,  BxB;  9Q.B2,  Q-Q2;  10  B.K3,  P.KR4  ;  11  QKt-Q2, 
P.R5 ;    12  P.KR3,  0-0-0  (Von Popiel v.  Schwartz). 

Or  6  PxP,  QxP;    7  0-0  (i),  B.Q2;    8  P-Q4I PxPI  (6) ;   9  PxP,  Kt-K4f ; 

10  B X  Bch,  Q X  B ;     11  Q-Kt3,  Kt x  Ktch ;    12  Q x  Kt,  0-0-0 ;    13  Kt-B3,  Kt-B4 ; 
14  B-K3,  B-Q3;    15  P-QR4  =  .    (Alapin.) 

(a)  7  B-B4,  Q-K6ch;    8  K-Bsq,  B-K3I;    9  P-Q4,  BxB;    10  QxB,  (if)  PxP; 

11  P X  P,  0-0-0  ;    12  B-K3,  &c. 

(6)  8. . ,  P-K5  is not so good ;  9  KKt-Q2,  P-B4  ;  10  R-Ksq,  P-QR3 :  11  B-B4, 
Q-R4;    12  Q-B2,  0-0-0,  &c. 

(3)  7  PxP,  KtxP;  8  Q-K4  (c),  Kt-Kt3;  9  P-Q4,  P-QR3;  10  B-K2,P-B4; 
11  Q-B2,  P-K5 ;  12  Kt-Kt5,  Q-B3 ! ;  13  Kt-KR3,  P-R3  (Rosenthal v.  Zukertort). 
(c)  8  Q-Kt3,  Kt-Kt3 ;    9  B-K3,  B-Q3 ;    10  QKt.Q2,  Q-K2 ;    11 0-0  (Winawer v.  Bier). 

(4)  Or9..,PxP;    10PxP,Kt-R4. 

(6)  Or  11  B-K3,  Kt-KKt3;    12  B-Qsq,  R-Qsq;    18  P.Q4;  or  13  PxP,  BxP 
14QKt-Q2.    (Potter.) 

(6)  Mr.  Potter suggests,  in reply to Jaenisch's move,  (3  . . ,  Kt-B3 ;)  4  Q-R4» 
P-QR3 ;  6  B-B4  after which,  he says,  Black has nothing better,  than B-K2,  or B>64« 
Mr.  Wayte prefers  4  Q-B2. 

(7)  If4..,P-Q3;  5P-Q5-h.    K4PxP';  5P.K5-f. 

(8)  If5  ..,  PxKP?;    6KtxP,B-Q2;    7Q.R4,KtxKt;    8  PxKt+. 

(9)  7  Q-Kt3,  9-K:2  7  {d);  8  Q x  P,  Kt x  Kt ;  9  Q x  KtP  (Q x  KKt !),  Kt-BBoh ; 
10  K-Bsq.    Mate in two moves.    (Grundy v.  Ranken). 

(d)  7..,Kt-Q3(e);  8BxKt,BxB;  90-0,B-K2  =  ;  orSQxP.KtxB;  9KtxB, 

Kt  (Kt4)xQP;'  lOPxKt,  QxKt  =  . 

(e)  7..,KtxKt;  8QxP,Q-K2;  9QxKt(K4),BxB;  10QxKt,QxQ;  UPxQ, 

0-0-0;    12B-K3,  R-Ksq;    13Kt-Q2  =  . 

(10)  The idea of giving up a  piece is due to Mr.  Fraser.  6  . . ,  Kt x  KBP ;  7  Q-Q5, 
B-Kt3 ;  8  B-QB4  (for  8  P x  KtP see Col.  16),  0-0  ;  9  P X  KtP,  BxP;  10  Q x  B, 
KtxR;  11  B.KKt5,  Q-Ksq ;  12  B-R4,  P-QB3;  13  QKt-Q2,  R-Ktsq ;  14  Q-R6, 
P.Q4;    15  B-Kt3,  P-K5 ;    16  Kt-Q4,  Kt-B7,  drawn.    (Ranken v.  Wayte.) 

(11)  Or  7  . . ,  P-Q4  (preferred by Staunton) ;  8  P x  KtP,  B x  P ;  9  Q-R4ch,  P-QB3 ; 
10  QKt-Q2,  P-KB4;  11  KtxKt,  BPxKt;  12  KxB,  0-0;  13  B-K3,  PxKt; 
14P-KKt3,Q-B8q;  15B-B5,R-B3;  16 R-Qsq,  P-QR4 ;  17R-Q2,B-R3;  18 BxB, 
QxB;    19  R-Ksq,  P-K5 ;    20  P-QR3  (P-E4  I).    (Wayte v.  Ranken.) 

(12)  If  11  ..,  B-Kt3,  the Eandbuch continues  12  B-KKt5:  Salvioli prelew 
12K.Qsq. 

d Table  17.— STAUNTON'S OPENING, 

.K4,   P.K4;     2  Kt-KB8,  Kt-QBS;    3  P-BS 
16  17  18  19  20 

Kt-B3 

4 

P-Q4 
KtxKP"  ■ 

B-Kt6 
KtxP 

5 

P-Q5 
B-B4 

Kt-K2 

PxP B-B4! 

0-0         <5) 

Kt-Ktsq""  ■ 

Kt.Q3 

6 

PxKt B-Q3 

KtxP Q-Q5 

BxKt KtxKBP Kt-KB3 

Kt-Kt3 

BxPoh QPxB 

7 

Q-Q5 

KtxP KtxKt K-K2 

KtxP B-Kt3 

B-B4 

RPxKt      ■ 

P-B4 

B-K2 

8 

PxKtP 

0-0 

B-Q3 

QKt.Q2 

P-Q4    — 

BxP 

0-0 

Kt-B3 

Kt-K2 

0-0    -- 

9 

QxB P-QKt4 

B-KKt5 

Q-Q3       (4) 

KtxR P-Q3       (2) 

B-K2 

P-Q4 

10 

B-KKt5 

Kt-B4 

BxKt P  X P  en pas P-KB3 

B-Kt3 

BxB QxP 

11 

B-R4 
P^Kt4     (1) 

P-QR4 
B-Kt5 

Q-K2oh+ 

QxQ PxQ 

12 

KtxEtP PxKt Q-B2 
P-B3 

KtxKt PxKtV 

18 

BxP R-QKtsq PxP  —(3) 
PxP-" 

14 

BxQ RxQ 

15 

B-R4 
R-Bsq-f 

(1)  11  ..,  P-QB3;    12  QKt-Q2!  R-QKtsq;    13  Q-R6,  P-KKt4,  &c.    If  12  P.R4, 
P.QR4  wins Queen.    If  12  Kt x  P,  R-QKtsq ;    13  Q-R6,  Q-K2H-.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(2)  Or9B-K2I   (Fraser.)    If  9  . . ,  B-Kt3 ;  10  B-KKt5  (Taohigorin.) 

(3)  Or  13  B.KKt5.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(4)  If9Q.B4,  P-Q44-.    If  9  Q-Kt3,  P-Q4 ;    10  PxP en pas,  QxP;    UKtxKft, 
PxKt;    12KxB,  PxKt+.    (Fraser.) 

(5>  5  Q.K2,  Kfc.Q3 ;  -6  KtxP.    (Potter.)    Tliis variation may.  occur in the Buy Lopes'  Kt'8  Gasket 

63 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

SECTION VIIL THE SCOTCH GAME OR GAMBIT. 
1P.K4.  P.K4;     2  Kt-KB8,  Kt-QBS;     8  P-Q4. 

THE Scotch Game or Gambit received its modern title from having been adopted with success,  both in attack and defence,  by the Scotch players in the celebrated match by correspondence between Edinburgh and London in  1824-1826.  The opening was noticed by the ItaUan writers Ercole del Rio  (1760)  and LoUi  (1763) ;  but it did not come into general practice until after the above mentioned match.  The advantage of this early advance of the Queen's Pawn is that it sets free at once White's Queen,  and Queen's Bishop,  and entirely prevents the formation of a  centre by IBlack,  since he has nothing better to do than to take tha Pawn.  Upon White's retaking with Knight,  which is now thought to be the best contination,  Black has three main lines of defence,  Q-R5  (Cois. 
6-15),  B-B4  (Cols.  16-29),  and Kt-B3  (Cols.  81-35) ;  though ho may also without danger exchange Knights,  and then play Kt-K2  (Col.  5).  Modern analysis has shown that the first named move yields Black a  very difficult game,  while by either the second or the third he may obtain a  satisfactory defence.  Nearly all the variations of the Scotch Gambit lead to interest- 
ing positions.  A remarkable feature in this opening is the number of wayg of attack and defence that have been advocated by experts at various times. 
As soon as one method has been satisfactorily met,  another equally ehgible has sprung up to take its place,  showing that the resources of the opening are practically inexhaustible. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

S8 

Table  18.— THE SCOTCH GAME. 

1P.K4,  P.K4;     2  Kt-KBS,  Kt-)QB3;     8  P.Q4,  KtxP.   (1) 

5 

10 

1 

KtxP Kt.K3 
P-KB4    (2) 

B-B4 
B-B4 

(8) 
(4) 

P-Q3 

B-Kt5ch P-QB3 

KtxQBP PxKt BxPch B-Q2 

BxR  — 

2 

B-QB4 

P-QB3 
0-0 

Kt-B3 
Kt-QB3 

B-B4 

K-Bsq P-Q3 

Kt-Q3 

B-Kt3 

P-B4    — 

QxB  —        0-0     — 

8 

BxKt Q-R4ch Kt-QB3 

QxKKt B-Kt3 

B-B4 

0-0  — 

KtxBP  (5) 

KxKt BxKtch KxE 

0-0 

P-Q4 

R-Ksq K-B2 

B-K3 

(6) 

5 

BtxKt PxlT QxP Kt-K2     (7) 
B-QB4    (8) 

Kt-B3 
Q-Q5 

Q-B3 
0-0 

(9) 

B-Kt5  (10) 
P-QB3— 

B-R4 

(1)  3  ..,  P.Q3;    4  PxP,  PxP B-KK' 

5  QxQchi KxQ;    6  Kt-B3  threatening t5ch,  and O-O-Och. 

(2)  Or  5  Kt-QB3,  B-Kfc5    (if  5  . . ,  P-Q3 ;     6  B-KtSch) ;    6  B.Q2,  Kt.B3 ;    7  P-BS, 
0-0;    SB-QBi,  P.Q3;    9Kt.Q3,  BxKt;    10  B x  B  (Goring v.  Paulsen.J 

(3)  If6..,Kt-B3;    6  B-Q3,  Kt-B4  (Steinitz) ;    7  B-B4  (Blake.) 

(4)  n  4  Kt-KBS,  Q.K:2  (Wormald). 

(5)  Mr.  Cochrahe's attack ;    hazardous,  hut requiring to he carefully answered. 

(6)  10  . . ,  B-QKt5  (or  10  . . ,  B-KS ;  Steinitz) ;  11 P-QB3,  B.R4 ;   12  B.Q4,  Et-B3 ; 
13P-K5,  Kt-K6+. 

(7)  5  . . ,  Q-B3 ;    6  P.K5,  Q.QKt3 ;  7  B-K3,  &c. ;    or  7  Q x  Q,  RP x  Q ;    8  Kt-B3, 

thrsatening Kt.Kt5. 

(8)  6  B-KKt6  or KB4  may also he played :    or  6  B.K3,  Kt.B3 ;    7  Q-Q2. 

(9)  Up to this point the moves are those of one of the celebrated correspondenc© 
games between Edinburgh and London,    The former played  8  Kt-B3. 

(10)  8  . . ,  Kt-KtS ;    9  Q-Qgq,  B-Bl.    (M.  C,  L) 

Mi THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING; 

Table  19.— THE SCOTCH GAME, 

1  P.K4.  P.K4; 

2  Kt-KB8,  Kt-QB3; 
4Kt xP,  Q-R6.    (1) 

8  P-Q4,  PxP; 

9 

10 

11 

» 

13 

6 

Kt-Kt5    (2) 
QxKPch B-K8 ! 

K-Qsq Kt-Q2 

(3) 

Q-Kt3 
Kt-KB3 
P.QR3    (4) 

111  SI I » ill! 

B-K2 

K-Qsq 
0-0 

P-QR3 

QKt-B3  (5) 

Q-K4 

Kt-Q5 ! 

PxKt B-KB4 

Q-Q5 

BxPch K-Ksq Q-Ksq+ 

8 

B-Kt5ch  (6) 
P-QB3 
QxKPch B-K3       (J) 

B-R4 
Kt-Q2 

Q-Kt3 
Kt-B4 

P-QR3 
Kt-Q4 

(8) 

B-Kt8 
KtxB     (9) 

PxKt Kt-B3 

P-Kt4 
B-Q3+ 

Q.K2?  (10) 
Kt-B4 
P-QR3  (11) 
Kt-Q4 

10 

B>Q2     (12) 

QxPch B-K2 

K-Qsq 

0-0 

BxB KtxB Q-KB6 
P-B4 

(18) 

B-Kt8 
^txB Kt.B3  (14) 

PxKt Kt.B5+ 

WBIm^ 

Notes to Table  19. 

(1)  "Mj.  PuHing's move,  to which the reply by'  5  Kt-KtS'  was introduced by Horwitz. 

\ 

(2)  5  B-K3  is at least as good.     If  5  Kt-QB3,  B-Kt5 ;     6  Q-Q3  (Kt-Kt5      see a 
'  transposition in Note  12),  B x  Ktch ;    7  P x  B,  Kt-B3+ . 

(3)  Played by Steinitz in a  match game with Martinez  {B.  C.  M.  1884,  p.  17). 
The move with the King appears to be the best way of meeting the attack on his weak QB Pawn.  If Black play instead  6  B-QKt5ch,  then  7  Kt-Q2,  with the better game. 

(4)  White has a  Pawn short,  but has ample compensation in the number arid weight of the pieces that can be brought to bear upon Black's King. 

(5)  Blackbume v.  Bum continued  8  KKt-B3,  Q-Ksq ;  9  Kt-Q2+.  After  8  QKt- 
B3,  Q-Ksq ;  Staunton gives  9  Kt-Q4  as best for White.  We follow the Handbook in this column as far as  10  B-E1B4,  The continuation is from a  game De Visser v. 
Blackmar in the Brooklyn Chronicle,  vol.  III.,  p.  109. 

(6)  He may also play  5  . . .  B-B4  :    6  Q-B3,  Kt-Q5  (C.  E.  R.) 

(7)  Suggested by Mr.  Fraser,  and analysed by Mr.  Ranken  (C.P.C vol.  IV.,  1880, 
pp.  10, 123,  226.) 

(8)  White may play  10  B.Q3,  and if Q  x P,  then B-K4,  The Bishop cannot be taken on account of Kt-Q6ch. 

(9)  Or  11  KtxEt,  QxKt;  12  BxB,  PxB;  13  Q-Q4,  Q.B3;  14  QxKtP 
{M.  C.  I.) 

(10)  Steinitz gives  8  ..,  Q-Q41;  (if)  9  Q-R4,  P.QR3;  10  QxB,  QxKKt, 
llQxQ,  PxQ=:    but  9  Kt.B4  I,  Q X  Qch ;    10RxQ,K-Qsq;    11  KtxB,KtxKt; 

12  B-KB4,  P-Q3;    13  KtxBP,  KxKt;    14  RxP,  (if)  Kt.QB3;   16  R-Q5  die oh: 
K-Kt3 ;    and White mates neatly in four moves  (C.  E.  R.) 

(11)  If  9  . .,  P-Q3,  or K-Qsq,  or Q-Qsq,  then lO Q-R4  with a  fine attack. 

(12)  6  Kt-Q2  is inferior.  If  6  QKt.B3,  QxPch;  7  B-K2,  K-Qsq!:  if  7  .., 
B X  Ktch  {M.  C.  I.) ;  8  Kt x  B,  Q x  KtP ;  9  B-B3,  Q-R6 ;  10  Kt-Q5,  K-Qsq ;  11 B-B4, 
P-Q3 ;    12  Kt X  P,  K X  Kt ;    13  Q x  Pch and wins. 

(13)  QxB,  P.QR3 ;    10  QKt-B3,  Q-K4  ;    11  Kt.R3,  P.QKt4 ;    12  B-BS,  KKt.K2 ; 

13  QK-Qsq,  R-QKt8q+ .    Against  10  KKt-B3  Steinitz against Golmayo played Q-KR5. 

(14)  Played in a  correspondence game between Vienna and London,  won by the 
.  latter.    Steinitz suggests as playable  10  . . ,  P-QR3 ;    11  Kt-QB3,  KKt-K2 ;   12  P.KKt3, 

Q-R3I:    or  10  ..,Kt.R3;    (if)  11  Kt-KB3.  R-Ksq ;    12  P-KKtS.  Q-BS ;    13  Kt-BS. 
P-QKt3+. 

'56 

Tablb  20.— the scotch GAME. 

1P-K4,I»-K4;     2  Kt-KBS,  KtrQBS;    3P-Q4,PxP; 
4  Kt X  P.  Q-R5.    (Diagram,  p.  54.) 

10 

11 

12 

11 

Kt-Kt5 

B-B4?  , 

Q-B3 

Kt-Q5 

KtxPch K-Qsq Q-B4 

KtxPch K-Qsq QxQ BxQ KtxR KtxR P-Q3 

Kt-B3+ 

12 

Q-Q3 

B-B4 
P-QB3 

(1) 

Kt-B3 

QKt-Q2 

Kt-KKt5 

P-KKt3 

Q-B3 

QKt-B8 

(2) 

QKt-K4 

Q-K2 

KtxKtch+ 

13 

Kt-KB3  (3) 

QxKPch B-K2 

B-Kt5ch  (4) 

P-B3 

B-K2 

0-0 

KFB3 

R-Ksq     (5) 

Q-B4 

Kt-Q4 

(6) 

KtxKt PxKt FQiT 

14 

B-K3? 
KFKtS Kt-R3     (7) 
B-B4+ 

15 

B-Q3 

KtxBch PxKt B-Kt6ch Kt-B8 

Q-Kt8 
0-0 

Kt-K2  + 

<1)  If eP-KKta,  Q-B3;  or if  6  B-K3,  Kt.QKt5. 

(2)  If9P.B3,KKt-K4;  10Q.K3,BxKt;  11  PxB,  QKtxP-|-. 

(3)  The invention of Wr.  Fjaser  (C.  P.  C,  1877,  pp.  1  and  25).  It leads to some fitriking variations,  but has not found so much favour as  5  Kt-Ktf 

(4)  If either  6  . .,  Kt-Kt5,  B-B4,  P-Q3,  Kt-KB3,or Q-K2  Black gets an inferior game.    If  6  . . ,  P-Q4 ;    7  0-0,  B-K3 ;    8  Kt-B3,  &c. 

(5)  Or  9  B-QKt5,  Q-Q4 ;  10  Q-K2,  Kt-QsQ+.  In a  game between Golmayo and Si.einitz the former played  9  E-Ksq,  and the continuation was Q-Q4 ;  10  Kt-Q4, 
EtxKt;    11  PxKt,  0-0;    12B.B3,Q-Q3;    13  P-QKt3-H. 

(6)  Or  10  Kt-Rd,  Q.Q4 ;  llB.Q2,0-0;  12  B-B3  (Eraser),  Q-QKt4;  13P.QKt3, 
P-Q4;    14P.B1,  Q.Kt3;    15  PxP,  KtxP^-.    If  15  B-K3,  P-Q5+.(  0.  B.  B.) 

(7)  If7KtQ4,P.QB4;  8  Kt.QB3,  Q-Kt3,  &c. 

Table  21.— THE SCOTCH GAME. 

1P.K4,P-K4;  2Kt.KB3,Kt-QB3;  8P-Q4,PxP;  4KtxP, 
B-B4;    5  B-KS,  Q-B3(l);    6  P-QB3,  KKt ^K2  (2). 

■ Ill Pi i  Si i  IB i  H i 

,>^§^.. 

m. 

m 

■^■«^Si« 

10 

11 

12 

16 

Q-Q2       (3) 

17 

18  10  20 

B-QKt5  B-K2    (18) 

P-QR3 

BxKt 

(7) 

P-Q4     (13) 

P-Q3     (17) 

P-Q41 

P-KB4 

(4) 

PxB Kt-Kt5  (14) 

0-0 

B-B3! 

P-Q3 

(5) 

P-Q4 

BxB 

0-0 

PxP B.B4 

(6) 

Kt-B3 

(8) 

QxB     (15) 

KtxKt BxP B-Q2 

B-K3 

(9) 

K-Qsq   (16) 

PxKt BxKt 

0-0 

B-Q3 

(10) 

PxP BxB PxB 

0-0 

PxP 

(11) 

R-Ksq PxKB 

0-0 

Q-KB2 

— 

KtxP Q.R5" 

B-K2  + 

B-Q4-Q.Kt3  — 

0-0 

Kt-KtS 

— 

R-Qsq  4- 

0-0    - 

- 

0-0-0— (12) 

58  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Notes to Tabls  21. 

(1)6..,Q-K2;  6)KtxKt,QPxKt;  TBxB.QyB;  8B.Q3&C.:  otherwis© 
5  . . ,  Kt X  Kt ;  6  B X  Kt,  B X  B.;   7  Q x  B tMsneposes into Col.  23,  Note  6. 

,  ^2)  These dix m<7ves are ccfnsidered to be the strofigest foifhoth aittack and defenOd in*  tins form of the opening. 

(3)  Threatening Kfe-Kt5i First played by L.  Patilsen at the Wiefebaden Congress 
'of  1880,  and introduced into England by Mr.  Blaokbume. 

(4)  If  8  B-K2,  Black can reply advantageously with P-Q3,  or  0-0,  but not with P.Q4  (Hooke v.  Wayte,  B.  C.  M.  1886,  p..235), 

(5)  8..,P-Q4;   9P-K6,  Q-R3;   10B.Q3,BxKt;  llPxB,B-B4;  12  0-0,0-0 

(Schottlander v.  Schallopp). 

(6)  He may also play,  as suggested by Mr.  Blake,  9  Q-KB2,  followed by  10Zt.B2. 

(7)  7  . . ,  Kt X  Kt ;  8  P x  Kt,  B.Kt3 ;  9  Kt.B3,  P-KR3 ;  10  B.QB4,  P-Q3 ;  11 0-0, 
Kt-B3 ;    12  Kt-Q5,  Q-KtS ;    13  KR-Ksq,  0-0.    (Blackbume v.  Gunsberg.) 

(8)  9P.K5,Q-Kt3;    10  Kt-B3,  B-B4 ;    llB.K2,QxP;    12  0-0-0,  &c.  (Jlf.ai.) 

(9)  If  9  ..,  Q-Kt3,  White should reply  10  P-B3,  or Kt-Kt5,  and not PxP,  on account of Kt.Kt5;  nor  10  KtxP on account of KtxKt;  11  PxKt,  Kt-K2: 
Blake v.  Locock played  10  B-QKt5 !,  Q x  KtP ;  11  0-0-0.  If  9  . . ,  P x  P ;  10  P-Q5, 
followed by Kt-Kt5. 

(10)  Or  10  P-K6,  Q-Kt3;  11  Kt-K2  (Blake),  Kt.B4;  (if)  12  Kt.B4,  Q.R3; 
ISKtxB,  QxKt=. 

(11)  Or  10  . .,  Q-R5 ;    11  0-0,  P-B3.    (Blake.) 

(12)  White may drive the Black Queen about for a  move or two,  but can do no harm,  and he has an isolated Pawn to protect. 

(13)  Or  7  ..,  P-Q3;  8  Kt-Kt5,  BxB;  9  QxB,-K^8€tt  -10  Kt-Q2  (or B-K2), 
P.QR3 ;  11  KKt-R3,  R-Ksq,  &c.— a promising variation.  (W.  T.  Pierce.)  The Handimch gives  7  . . ,  0-0 ! ;    8  P-KB4  &c. 

(14)  8  PxP,  KtxP;  9  Kt-Kt5,  BxB;  10  PxB,  B-'K3;  11  P-B4,'^KKt-Kt6 ; 
12  KtxPch,  K-K2;  13  KtxR,  R-Qsq;  14  Q-B3,  Q-R5ch;  16  P-Kt3,  Q-K6; 
16  R-Ktsq,  Kt-B7ch  ;  17  K-B2,  Kt-K4 ;  18  R-Kt2,  R.Q8 ;  19  K-Ktsq,  B-R6 1  (X.  v. 
Ziikertort.  C.  M.  vol.  V.,  p.  61). 

(15)  9  P X  B,  0-0 ;  10  Kt x  BP,  P X  P ;  11  Kt x  R,  R-Qsq ;  12  Q-Bsq  (or  12  Q-QB2. 
Kt-Q4),    Kt.B4;    13  P-KKt3,  Q.Kt4 ;    14  K-B2,  Kt-K4 ;    16  B-K2,  R.Q6-i- (M. C.I.) 

(16)  If  9   ..,  Q-K4,  then   10  Kt.Q2.     If  9  ...  0-0,  then  10  Kt x BP,  "R-Kteq 
11  KtxP,  KtxKt;      12  PxKt,   B-B4;     13  B-K2,   KR-Ksq;    14  Q-Q2,  Q-Kt3 

15  0-0,    B-K5;     16  P-B3,  BxQP  (Pierce);    17  B-Q3,  &c.     Or  12  ..,  Kt-Kt5 
i3PxKt,(a)QxKtP;    14  Q-QB3,  R-Ksq ch ;    15  K-Qsq,  Q x  BP.    (Von Bardeleben and Von Gottschall.) 

{a)  13  Q-Q2,  B-Kt5  (Fraser);     14  B-B4,  KR-Ksq ch;    15  K-Bsq,  P-QKt4 

16  P X  Kt,  P X  B ;    17  Kt.B3.  R x  P ;    18  P-Q6,  R-Qsq ;    19  R:Ksq,  QR-Ktsq  &o. 

(17)  Herr Zukertort favours  7  . . ,  Kt^  Kt.  If  7  . . ,  Q-Kt3 !  8  0-0 ;  and Black cannot safely take the KP.  Glasgow v.  Hull continued  8  . . .  P-Q3 ;  9  Q-K2,  0-0 ; 
10Kt-Q2,  BxKt;    llBxB,  KtxB;    12PxKt,P-Q4;    13P.B3=: 

(18)  If  7  Kt,.B2  (Dr.  Meitner),  BxB;  8  KtxB,  P.Q3;  9  Kt.QB3,  P.QR3; 
10  B.K2,  Q-Kt3 ;    11  P-B3,  P-B4 ;    12  P x  P,  Kt x  P  (Tschigorin v.  Gunsberg). 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.  5& 

Table  22.— THE SCOTCH GAME. 

1  P.K4,  P.K4;     2  Kt-KB3,  Kt.QB3;  8  P.Q4,  PxP; 
4  KtxP,  B.B4. 

21  22  28  24  25 

.     B-K3  Kt-B5? 

10 

Q-B3  BxKt P-Q4!     (7) 

P-QB3  BxB KtxPch KKt-K'2  Kt-B3      (6)  K-Bsq P-KB4  B-QB4  BxKt Kt-B3  Kt-R5     (8) 

P-Q4       (1)  Kt-K4      (5)    QxB  0-0  q:E5 

P-K5  B-K2  t Kt-B3  B-K3  Kt-Kt3 

Q-R3       (2)  Q-Kt3!  0-0  R-Ksq KFB3        " 

Q-Q2  0-0      —        B-Q3  B-Q3    —        B.K2 

BxKt     (3)  P-Q4    —        P-Q3  P-Q3    --        B-KKt5  (9 

PxB-^  a^O S-K3     (10) 

B-B4-.  (4)  B^Q2  KBxB P-B4-f.  PxB 

1*  KtorPxP 

+ 

(1)  Stronger than  7  . . ;  P-Q3.  Wormald recommends  7  . . ,  Q-Kt3 ;  (if)  8  Q-B3, 
KtxKt;    9PxKt{BxKtI),B-Kt5ch;    10  Kt-B3,  P-Q4  ;    11P-K5,  Q-B7  +  (M.C.I.) 

(2)  The Queen may check at R5;  but must not go to Kt3  on account of  9  P-B5. 

(3)  Or  9  . . ,  0-0  ;    (if)  10  Kt-Kt5,  B-Q2 ;    11  Kt x  BP,  R-QBsq  (Blake). 

(4)  If  10  ..,Kt-B4;  11*B-B2I 

(5)  If  7  . . ,  Q-Kt3 :  8  Kt X  Kt,  Q X  Kt ;  9  B x  Pch,  K x  B ;  10  Q.R5ch,  P-KKt3 ; 
llQxB.QxP;    120-0+(0.  E.  R.)    Or  12  Kt-Q2  (W.W.),  if Q  x P ;    130-0-0. 

(6)  If  6  ..,  KtxB;  7  QxKt,  Q-B3;  8  P-K5,  Q-KKt3;  9  Kt.R3,  Kt.K2; 
10  0-0-0,  Kt-B3 ;    11Q-K3,  0-0;    12  P-KB4  +  . 

(7)  Or  5  . . ,  Q-B3 ;  6  Kt-B3,  KKt.K2 ;  7  Kt.K3,  P-Q3  ;  8  B-K2,  0-0 ;  9  0-0, 
B-K3;  10  K-Rsq,  QR-Qsq,  &c.  Or  5  ..,  P-KKt3  (C.E.R.) ;  if  6  Kt-K3,  B.Q5; 
7  B-Kt5,  B-Kt2,  &c. 

(8)  If7PxP,  Q-R5,&c.    If7QxP,QxQ;    8PxQ,Kt-Q5. 

(9)  The Handbuch gives  9  ..,  KtxPI  10  0-0,  B-K3;  11  KtxKt,  PxKt; 
12   B-K3,   BxB;    13    PxB,    R-KKtsq.      Steinitz continues with  9   ..,  Kt-K4; 

10  P-KR3,  R-KKtsq;  threatening RxKt. 

(10)  Schmid v.  Way to played  10  Kt-Q2,  to which the best repl)r is P  x P. 

60  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

10 
11 

Table  23.— THE SCOTCH GAME. 

1  P.K4,  P-K4;     2  Kt-KBS,  Kt-QB8;    .3P.Q4,PxP; 

4  KtxP. 

26  27  28  29  80 

B-B4  g:K2      (5) 

KtxKt Kt-Kt3  P>KB4    (6) 

Q-B3  B-Kt3     (8)     P-Q3 

Q-B3       (1)  P-KB4  Kt-B3     (4)     P.B3 

QxQ QxKt KtPxKt Kt-B3  WB3 

PxQ B-Q3  Q-B3  B-KB4  B-K3 

KtPxKt Kt-B3  K-Ktsq p.Q3  KKt-K2 

B-KB4    (2)  Q-K2  Kt-B3  Q-Q2    —        B-Q3 

P-Q3  0-0  Kt-B3  !  —        Kt-Kt3 

BB4  Kt-B3  —        Kt-Qsq Kt-Q2 

B:K3  P.QR3—        P-Q3  B^:Q2  ' 

Kt-Q2  —  P-KR3  —  QKt-B3 

—  —  Q-K2 

0-0+ 

O-O-O     (7) 

(1)  Or  6  Q-Q2,  if White does not want to exchange Queens. 

(2)  Or  8  Kt-B3,  Kt-K2 ;  9  B-K3,  B-Kt3  = .     (Paulsen v.  Max Lange.) 

(3)  5  . .,  B-K2  is recommended by some experts. 

(4)  6  P-QBl,  P.Q3;  7  Kt-B3,  Kt.B3?;  8  B-K2.  Kt.K4;  9  P-B4,  QKt-KtS; 
10P-QB51,PxP;  llQxQch,  KxQ;  12  P.K5,  Kt-Ktsq;  13  P-KR3,  QKt-RS; 
14  B-K3.    (Schallopp v.  Gunsberg). 

(6)  Introduced by M.  Benima in the Vizayanagaram Tourney.  It is fairly safe, 
but gives Black a  cramped game. 

(6)  6  B-QB4,  B-K3,  or P-QB3  may be played here. 

7)  From a  consultation game.    (Walton and Aspa v.  Ranken and Locock.) 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

6] 

ik Table  24.— THE SCOTCH GAME. 

1P-K4.   P.K4;      2Kt-KB3,   Kt-QBS;     8.P-Q4,   PxP: 
tm  4  KtxP.  Kt-B3I r 

81 

82 

94 

85 

KtxKt  (1) 

KtPxKt B-Q3 

P-Q4 

Q-K2 

Kt-QB3 

B-K2 
0-0 

10 

11 

0-0 

B-KB4 

R-Ktsq Kt-Q2 

R-Ksq P-K5  — 

(3) 

(4)     Q-0 

P-K5 
Kt.Kt5    (6) 

m B-QB4  (dia) 

B-KB4  P-KR3 

KtxBP(8)  KtxKP(9)    OU^O RxKt R-Ksq B-Kt2 

P-K5     (11) 

Q-K2     (12) 

Q-K2 

KFQ4 

P-QB4  (18) 

B-R3 

P-QKt3(14) 

B-Eh;6 
KtxKt(15) 
KtPxKt Q-Q4     (16) 
Q^K2 

P-B3    (dia) 

P-KR3  (17) 

Q-B4     (18) 

+  (19) 

BxRch KxB Q-B3 
Q-K2 

Q-Kt4+ 

B-Bsq— (5)     Q.R5cb  0-0       (10) 

(Col.  32.) 

m mM 

'4m,  ^WA i     m. 

After Black's  8th move. 

(Col.  85.) 

1  A« 

After White's  8th move. 

62  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Notes to Table  24. 

(1)  5  6-QB4  or B-KEt5  can be adopted here,  but not so advantageously. 

(2)  7  P X  iP also equalises at least. 

(3)  7  . .,  P X P ;    8  B xP,  Ktx B leads to an even game. 

(4)  Or8P.K5. 

(5)  From a  consultation game,  Blackburne and Zukertort v.  Potter and Steinitz. 

(6)  If  7  ..,  Kt-Q2;    8  0-0,  B-B4 ;     9  B-KB4  (or K-Rsq,  C.  E.  R.).   Kt-Bsq; 
10Kt-Q2,  Kt-K3;    11  B-KtS,  0-0  ;    12  K-Rsq+. 

(7)  8B-KB4,  P-Kt4;    9  B-Kt3,  B-Kt2,  &o. 

(8)  Steinitz gives  9..,  P-KKt4;    10  B-Kt3,  P-KR4  ;    11  P-KRS,  P-R5;    12B-R2, 
Kt x  B ;  13  K X  Kt,  P-Kt5 ;    14  P x^P,  Q-Kt4,  &o. 

(9)  Or9..,P-KR4(0.E.R.) 

(10)  Continued  12  QxKt,QxPch;   13K-Rsq,BxP;   14  PxB,Q-B6ch;   15K-R2, 
B-Q3,  &c. :    or Black might play  12  . . ,  B x  Pch ;    13  K-Bsq,  B x  R dis ch,  &c. 

ai)  Or  6  Q.Q4,  P.Q4 ;    7  Kt.QB3,  &o.    If  6  B-KKt5,  P.KR3 :    7  B x  Kt,  Q x  B : 
8  P-QB3. 

(12)  6..,Kt-K5;    7  Q-B3,  Kt-Kt4  ;    8.Q-KKt3,  Kt.K3 ;    9  B-Q3,  P-B3  (M.  C. /.) 

(13)  8  P-KKt3  suggested by Mr.  J.  Russell,  of Glasgow,  seems a  decided improve- 
ment. 

(14)  9  P.KB4,  (if)  0-0-0 ;  10  Q-KB2  {M.  C.  L) 

(16)  6  B-KKt5,  P-KR3 ;    7  BxKt,  QxB;    8  Kt-Kt5,  K-Qsql;    9  Q-B3,  QxQ; 
10  P X  Q,  P-QR3 ;    11  Kt-R3,  B x  KKt ;    1^  P x  B,  Kt-Q5  +  {M.  C.  L) 

(16)  7B-Q3,0-0;    8  0-0,  PrQ4,  «fec. 

(17)  Or  8  . . ,  P.B4 ;    9  Q-B2 :    8  . . ,  P-Q4,  9  B-KKt5  is in White's favour. 

(18)^9  B-Q2,  P-Q4;     10  0-0-0.  P-B4;.  11  Bch,  B-Q2;     12  BxBch,  KxB; 
13  Q-B2,  P-Q5,  &c. 

(19)    9..,:B.Kt2;    10  P-QR3,  B-R4 ;    if B-K2.  B-Kt3 ;    12  B-Q2,  &c. 

k Tablb  26.— the scotch GAME. 

1  P-K4.  P-.K4;     2  Kt-KBS,  Kt-QBS;     8  P-Q4,  PxP;  * 
4  B.QB4,  B-B4  (1). 

10 

U 

12 

.18 

P-Q6  ~1[2) 

P-QKt4 

B-Kt3 

Q-Kt3     (8) 

Q-K2 

0-0 

FQ3 

P-QR4 

P.QR3 

B-KKt5 

Kt-B3 
QKt-Q2  — 
Kt-K4  or B.K8  — 

37 
0-0 

89 

P-Q3 
P-B3 

(4) 
(5) 

B-KKtS  (6) 

Q-Kt3 

BxKt    (7) 

BxPch K-Bsq BxKt     (8) 

RxB PxB P-KKt4 

Q-Qsq PxP Q-Kt3 

Q-B3     (10) 

KtxP KKt-K2 

Kt-Q5 

KtxKt PxKt Kt-K2 

B-KKt5 

Q-Kt3 

B-Kt5  ch  + 

89 

Kt-Kt5  (11) 

Kt-R3 !  (12) 

KtxBP KtxKt BxKtch KxB Q-R5ch P-KKt3 

QxB    (13) 

P-Q4     (14) 

0-0 !     (15) 

B-K3     (16) 

P-QB3 

PxKP PxP QxP+ 

40 

Q-E5 

Q-K2 !  (17) 

0-0 

P-Q3     (18) 

P-KR3 

B-Q2 
P-B4 

0-0-0 

BxP KtxB QxKt! 

QR-Ksq-f 

64  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Notes to Tablb  25. 

(1)  4  . . ,  Kt-B3 ;  5  P-K5,  P-Q4 ;  6  B-QK;t5,  Kt-K5 ;  7  Kt x  P transposes into the Two Knights'  Defence  (Col.  15) :  White may play also  5  Kt-Kt5.  •  4  . . ,  Q-B3  U obsolete :    White castles and shortly obtains the advantage.    If  4  . . ,  P-Q3,  5  Kt x  P- 

(2)  If  5  ..,  PxP;  6  BxPch.  If  5  ..,  KKt-K2,  6  Kt-Kt5+.  For  5  ...  Kt-BS, 
or P-Q3  see the  "  Giuoco Piano."    If  5  . .,  Q-K2 ;  6  0-0. 

(3)  Or  7  P-Kt5,  Q-K21;  8  0-0,  Kt-K4;  9  KtxKt,  QxKt;  10  Q-Kt3,  Q-R4; 
11 P-K5.    {Handhooh.) 

(4)  Or  5  . .,  Kt-KB3,  which transposes into Max Lange's Attack.    If  5  . .,  Q-B3: 

6  P-B3. 

(5)  If  6  P-K5,  P-Q4 ;  7  B-QKt5,  B-KKt5,  &c.  6  P.QKt4  is sometimes played at this point,  leading to a  variation of the Evans Gambit :  if  6  . .,  B x KtP  ;  7  P-B3, 
PxPl    (Steinitz.) 

(6)  Ziikertort recommends  6  . . ,  Kt-B3. 

(7)  7  . . ,  Kt-R4  may be played but with less advantage. 

(8)  If  9  P x  B,  P X  P  (9  . . ,  Kt-B3  +  ;  Bird) ;  10  B x  Kt  (if  10  ^t x  P,  Kt-Q5,  &c. 
If  10  P X  P,  Kt.K4 ;    11  B-R5,  P.KKt3.     H  10  B-R5,  P-KKt3),  R x  B ;     11  Kt x  P, 

P-KKt4,  &C.4- 

(9)  Continued  14  QxP,  Kt-K4;  15  Q-K2,  Q-R6;  16  Kt-Q2,  P-Kt5  and wins. 
(Kolisch v.  Anderssen.) 

(10)  Or  7  . . .  Q-Q2 :  8  Q x  BP,  P-B3,  &c.    Or  7  . . ,  Kt-R4 1     (Handbook.) 

Ill)  Or  5  P-K5,  P-Q4 ;  6  B-QKt5 1  (if  6  P x  P en pas,  QxP;  7  0-0,  KKt-K2 ; 
8  Kt-Kt5,  0-0;  9  Q-R5,  Q-Kt3),  P-KR3;  7  0-0  (if KtxP,  Q-R5),  B-KKt5; 
8  QKt-Q2,  KKt-K2 ;    9  Kt-Kt3,  B-Kt3 ;    10  QKt x  P,  0-0  = . 

(12)  If  5  . . ,  Kt-K4,  the same continuation works out to White's advantage.  After 
6KtxBPBlack may play Bch?;  7  P-B3,  PxP;  8  PxP,  BxPch,  &c.,  but he Buffers in position. 

(13)  If9Q-Q5ch,K-Kt2;  10QxB,R-Ksq!;  11 P-KB3,  P-Q4 ;  12Kt-Q2,PxP; 
l3KtxP,  B.B4-H. 

14)  The invention of M.  Schoumoff.  Black may also play  9  . . ,  P-Q3 1 ;  10  Q-QKt5, 
"     ! :    if  10  Q-R3,  R-Ksq ;    11  Q-KB3ch,  K-Kt2 + . 

(15)  10  PxP,  Kt-Q2,  and P-K5  are inferior moves.  After  10  Q x Pch,  Q x Q  ; 
11  P X  Q,  Kt-Kt5 ;  12  Kt-R3,  Rch ;  13  K-Qsq,  Kt x  QP ;  14  R-Ksq,  and Black has no perceptible advantage.    (Blake.) 

(16)  If  10  . . ,  P X  P ;  11  B-Kt5,  Q-Ksq ;  12  P.KB3,  P-K6 ;  13  P-QB3-i- .  Black may,  however,  play  11  . .,  Q-Q3. 

(17)  6  . . ,  Q-B3 ;  7  P-B4,  P-Q3 ;  (if)  8  P-KR3,  B-Q2 ;  9  0-0,  Q-Kt3 ;  10  Q-B3, 
0-0-0;  11P-B5,  Q-B3;  12  K-Rsq,  Kt-K4 ;  13  Q-QKt3,  B-B3+:  Steinitz plays 
8P-B5I,  (if)  Kt-K4;  9  KtxRP,  RxKt;  10  B-KKt5,  Kt-B6ch  (or  10  ...  QxB; 
11  QxQ,  KtxB.  C.E.  R.);    11   PxKt,  -Q-K4;     12  BxPch,  &c.    If  6   ..,  0-0; 

7  BxPch,  K-Rsq;     8  B-Kt6,  Q-B3;     9  B-B51:  or  8  KtxRP,  RxB;     9  BxKt, 
PxB;    lOQxR,  Q.K2! 

(18)  The following continuation has been played repeatedly  :  7  . . ,  Kt-K4 ;  8  B-Kt3, 
P-Q3 ;  9  P-KR3,  B-Q2 ;  10  P.KB4,  Kt.Kt3 ;  11  P-B5,  P-Q6  dis ch ;  12  K-Rsq, 
PxP;  13Kt-QB3,Kt-K4;  14  Kt-Q5,  Q-Qsq ;  15  P-B6,  0-0  ;  16  Kt-K7ch,  K-Rsq ; 
17  PXPch,  KxP;  18  QxKtch,  KxQ;  19  Kt-K6  dis ch,  K-R4;  20  R-BSch, 
K-RS;  21R-B4ch,K-R4;  22  Kt-Kt7ch,  K-Kt4 ;  23  R.Kt4  dou ch,  K-BS ;  24Kt-Q6 
mate R-Ksq THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING, 

G'6 

Table  26,-~THE SCOTCH GAME. 

P-K4, 

41 
B-QB4 

K  4  ;     2  Kt-42 

KBS,  Kt-Q 
43 

4    m 

6 
7 
8 
9 

10 
11 
12 

B-Kt5ch  (1) 

P-B3 

PxP 

0-0 

PxP?    (2) 

QBxP Kt-B3 

Kt-Kt5 

0-0 

P.B7 
QxBP PxP      (9) 

B.R4 

0-0! 

(3) 

P-Q3 
P-QR3 

B-QB4 
P-QKt4 

P-Q4 
PxKt KtxP! 
BxKt B-Kt3     (6) 
Q-Kt3 

PxB Q-R5 

P-Q4 
B-Q3 

(4) 

Q-B3 
B-Kt2 

(7) 

P-KR3 
PxP-f Kt-Kt5 
Kt-KB3 

Q-Kt3     (8) 
P-QR4  — 

KtxB     (6)     P-QR3 

B3;     8  P.Q4.  PxP. 
44  45 

P-B3     (12) 

PxP!  (13) 

B-QB4 

Kt-B3 

Kt-Kto  (14) 

KFK4 

B-Kt3 

P-Q4 

KPxP BQKtS 

0-0 

0-0 

QKtxP FKR3 

KKt-K4 

KtxKt KtxKt Q-R5     (16) 

P-Q3 
P-K5 

(10) 

KKt-K2(ll) 

Q-R4  

0-0 
R-Qsq-f 

(1)  Considered inferior to  4  B-B4. 

(2)  If  6  ..,  Q-B3;    7  P-K5,  PxP;     8  PxQ,  PxR(Q);     9  Q-K2ch,  B.K2; 
10  B.Kt2,  &c.  {Handbtich.) 

(3)  7  . . ,  B-Bsq,  P-B3,  and K-Bsq are also unfavourable for Black. 

(4)  Or  11  B-K21  (Steinitz.) 

<5)  13  Kt X  Kt,  Q.B3 ;    14  P.B4,  B-B4ch    (or  14  . . ,  P-B4  ;    Steinitz) ;  15  K-Rsq, 
I^.KKt3;     16B.K2  =  . 

(6)  If  9  . . ,  Kt-Q5 ;    10  B x  Pch,  K-Bsq I ;    11  Q-Q3 1  + . 

(7)  Or  10  . .,  Q-K2 ;     11  Kt-B3,  Kt-'B3 ;    12  B-KKt5  {M.  C.  I.) 

(8)  Steinitz continues  11  . .,  Kt-K4  (if  11  . .,  Q-Kt3 ;   12  Kt-R4-f );   12  K-Rsq to follow with KtxKt and P-B4. 

(9)  Introduced by Mr.  Cochrane. 

(10)  If  7  ..,  Kt-B3;  8  P-K5,  P-Q4;  9  PxP,  en pas,  &c.  If  7  ..,  KKt-K2, 
8  Kt-Kt5.    If  7  . . ,  B-Kt3 ;    8  P-K5,  KKt-K2 ;    9  B-R3  +  . 

(11)  If8  ...PxP;    9BxBPch,KxB;    lOKtxPch-l-. 

*(12)  The Goring Gambit;  leading into the Danish Gambit if Black plays 
«..,PxKtP. 

(13)  4  . . ,  P-Q4  ;    5  P x  QP,  Q X  P ;    6  P x  P,  (if)  B-KKt5  ;    7  B-K2  and Kt-BS. 

(14)  So played Metgcr v.  Zukertcrt.  Another variation is  6  0-0  !  B-K2  ;  7  P-K5. 
Kt-KKt5  ;  8  Q-Q5,  0-0  ;  9  Ktx P,  P-Q3.  (Schwede v.  Wayte.)  Steinitz suggests 
6  KtxP  (if)  B-Kt5;  7  0-0,  BxKt;  8  PxB,  P-Q3;  9  P.K5,  PxP;  10  Q-R4, 
CO  ;     11  B-R3,  R-Ksq ;     12  QR-Qsq,  B-Q2  ;     13  Kt-Kt5-f-. 

(15)  After  13  QQ4,  B-Q3,  Mr.  Wayte suggests  14  P.B4-|.. 

ee THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

SECTION IX. 

THE TWO KNIGHT'S DEFENCE. 
1P.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QBS;    3B-B4,Kt-B8. 

rE Two Knights'  Defence has three forms.  In the position given on the ahove diagram by continuing with  4  P-Q4,  or  0-0  (Cols.  11-19), 
the first player turns the opening into a  variation which may be brought about in the Giuoco Piano by a  transposition of moves.  The second form arises out of  4  Kt-Kt5,  P-Q4  ;  5  P?^P,  KtxP  (Cols.  8-10).  White by thus sacrificing his Knight obtains a  very powerful attack the defence to which is difficult and the issue doubtful.  The Black King is brought into the centre of the board and so environed with dangers that it requires great care to extricate him.  This is the  "Fegatello"  (fried liver)  of the early Italian writers Polerio and Gianuzio.  If,  however, 
instead of  5  ...,  KtxP the second player moves  5  ...,  Kt-QR4  (Cols.  1-7) 
he converts the opening into what is unquestionably the strongest Counter Gambit in the King's Knight's Game.  The Black Bishops and Queen are brought at once into active play,  and the first player,  being put upon the defensive before he has completed his development,  has for some time an uncomfortable game-  The labours of analysts and expert players in endeavouring to decide between the respective merits of the attack and defence have resulted in the variations being carried into the mid-game  ; 
but advantages and disadvantages are so evenly balanced that the question as to which side has the superiority is not yet definitely determined.  In modern practice the second player will usually avoid the move  6  . ..,  Kt x  P, 
which might gain him a  Knight for a  Pawn,  and select  6  ...,  Kt-QR4, 
which gives up a  Pawn for a  counter attack  ► 

Table  27.— THE TWO KNIGHTS'   DEFENCE. 

I 

1P-K4,  P-K4;     2  Kt-KB8,  Kt-QB3;  3  B-B4,  Kt-B3^    4  Kt- 

Kt5.  P-Q4;     6PxP,  Kt-QR4;     6  B-Kt  5ch,  P.B3  ;     7  P x  P. 

PxP;    8B-K2(1),  P-KR3,    9  Kt-K B3  (2),  P-KS  (3). 

1  2  3  4  6 

10    ^^ ^ 

Q-B2!     (4)    Q-Q5 

jj P-KB4    (5)    Kt-Kt4  P-KB4  f B-Q3!  BxKt B-QB4 

P-Q4  BxB(dia)      R-Bsq  (dia.)  

0-0  P-K6       (7)     Q-Q3  Q-Qsq    (13)     0^0  ^ 

P-B3 !     (6)    B-B3       (8)     P-B3     (10)  p.B3  P-B3 

P-B4  PxBPch Kt-Kt2  Kt-Q4  QlQ^^j        * 

Kt-R3  K-Bsq P-QKt4(ll)  Q-R4  P-QKt4 

P-R3  0-0-0  B-Kt3  0-0  KFQ4 

Kt-B2-f P-B3  Kt-R3   (12)  QxKP PKKt3(14) 

Q-Q6ch  0-0  P-B3 

B-K2t QKt-B4  B-Q3 

Q-B4  Q^M"        '  ■ 

12 
18 
14 
15 
16 

.-  P-QKt4  (9) 

(1)  If  8  B-R4,  P.KR3;    9  Kt.KB3,  P-K5.     10  Q-K2  (if Kt-K5,  Q-Q5),  B-K3 , 
11  Kt-K5,  Q-Q5,     12  BxPch,  KtxB.     13  KtxKt  (if Q-Kt5.  B-QB4  +  ),  Q-B4-f If  8  B-Q3  iGunsberg v.  Tschigorin),  Kt-Q4  ,    9  Kt-B3  or P-KFA,  Ivt-KB5.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(2)  9  Kt-KR3,  B-QB4  (or  9  ...  B-Q3 ,  Steiuitz),  10  P-Q3,  0-0  (or  10  ..,  P- 
KKt  41),  11  Kt-B3,  Kt-Q4;  12  Kt-R4,  B-Q3 ,  13  Kt-Ktsq,  P-KB4  (Steinitz v. 
Tschigorin) :  if  9  . . ,  B x  Kt .  10  P x  B,  Q-Q4  ,  11  B-B3,  P-K5  ;  12  Kt-B3.  Q-K4  ; 
13B-Kt2-f-. 

(3)  9  . .,  B-Q3  ,  10  P-Q4.  P-K5  ,  11  KKt-Q2,  Q-B2  ,  12  QKt-B3  (orKt-KBsq), 
P-K6  (if  12  . . ,  B-KB4  ;  13  Kt-Bsq thence to Kt3) ,  13  Kt.B3,  P x  Pch  ,  14  K x  P, 
Kt-Kt5ch  ;     15  K-Ktsq  {^M.  C-  I.)    Mr.  Monck suggests  10  P-Q3. 

(4)  If  10  .,B-Q3;  11  P-KB4,  Q-B2,  &c. .  if  11  .,P-Kt4,  12P-Q4,PxBP: 
13BxP,  Kt-Q4,     14  0-0,  KtxB,     ]5RxKt,  BxKt,     16RxKP(C.  M.) 

(5)  If  11  P-Q4,  B-Q3  ;  12  P-KB4  (Mr Ranken suggests  12  B.KB4),  PxPen pas; 
13  Kt x  P  (KB3),  B-KKt5  ;    or  13  . . ,  Kt-Kt5. 

(6)  If  13  0-0,  P-B4  I  14  P-E3,  R-Ktsq  (or R-Qsq ;  l5B-K3,Kt-Q4);  15P-QKt3, 
Kt-B3;    16KtxKt,  QxKt. 

(7)  0rl2..,B.B4:  13  0-0,  P-K6,  14  B-B3,  P x  Pch  ,  15  K-Rsq,  «^c.  (Fraser.) 
II 12  . .,  Kt.B5  ;    13  P-BS providing an outlet for the Qneen  .  if  13  0-0,  Kt-K4 !  = . 

68 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

(8)  Orl3B-K2l    (Bird.) 

(9)  If now  17  . .,  Kt-Q4  ? ;    18  P-Q4 1  threatening B-Kt4.    (Bowley.) 

(10)  Stopping  13  . .,  Kt-Q4,  as played in Col.  4. 

(11)  Or  14  Q-B4,  Kt-Qsq,  &c.    (Hirschfeld v.  Kolisch.) 

(12)  15  P.QE4I P-QE4;    16  P.Kt5,  (if)  PxP;     17  BxPch:  if  16  ...  P-B4: 

17  Kt.B3,  &c.    (M.C.L) 

(13)  Played by Mr.  Starbuck of Cincinnati.    lA.  S.)    Or  12  ..,  B-Q3      13  P-B3, 
Q.kt3;    14Q-B4,  B-Q2;    15KtxB,KxKt. 

(14)  Given with  15  Q-B2  (A.  S.)  as White's best resource;    if  15  Q-B2,  Q.B5ch; 
I6P-Kt3,QxBP;    17QxKP,B.B6;   18PxB,BxB;    19KxB,QxP;  20Q-B3+. 

(Col.  2.) 

(Col.  8.) 

After White's  12th move. 

After White's  12th move. 

»^ 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENINGi e& 

Table  28.— THE TWO KNIGHTS'    DEFENCE. 

10 

U 

12 

18 

14 

15 

1P-K4,P.K4;    2  Kt-KB.3.  Kt.QBS;    3B.B4,  Kt-B3 

6 

Kt-Kt6 

P-Q4 
PxP Kt-QR4 
B-Kt5ch P-Q3 

P-B3 
PxP 

(1) 

P-KR3  !  (4) 
Kt-B3 

PxP Q-B3 

P-K5 
Q-K2 

(5) 

Q-B2 
B-R4 

KtxB PxKt B-Q3 
P-Q3 

0-0 
0-0 

P-KR8 
Kt-K4 

KtxKt B-QB4    (6) 
P-KR3 
00 

Kt-R2  (dia.) 
P-QKt4  (7) 
Kt-QB3  (8) 
PxP QxBP Q-Q3 
0-0! 

B-R8 
Kt-Kt5    (9) 

(Col.  7.) 

8 

9 

10 

KtxP KtxB'P(lO) 

KxKt Q-B8cb['. 

K-K3 

Kt-B3  (dia.) 

QKt-K2 

P-Q4! 

P-B3 

B-KKt5 

P-KR3 

BxQKt(ll) 

BxB 

0-0-0   (12) 

R-Bsq Q-K4 

B-Kt4cli K-Ktsq R-B5     (13) 

KtxP BxPch(17) 
K-K2 

P-Q4  (18) 
P-KR3  (19) 
KtxKt KxB P-Q5 

Kt-Kt5 
Q-K4!  (14) 
P-QKt4 
B-Kt3 

P.B4 
P-Q3 

(16) 

B-Kt2 
P-B4 

Kt-K2 
Q-R5ch(20) 
P-KKt3 
QxKP Fl[t2        ^ 
Q-B4ch K-Ktsq QKt-B3  + 

P-B5 
QPxP KtxKt PxKtPch(16) 
Kt(B6)-Q4 
P-QR3 
KtxPch+ 
(Col.  8.) 

1    ^y After White's  11th move. 

After White's  8th move. 

70  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Notes to Table  28. 

(1)  6  ..,  B-Q2  ?,  7  Q-K2,  B-Q3;    8  Kt-QB3  (or  8  BxBch,  Qx33;    9  P.QB4, 
Hatidbvfih),  0-0;    9BxB,QxB;    10  P-QRS,  P-QB4 ;    11  P.Q3+ 
(2)8..,PxB;    9QxR,Kt-Kt2;     10QxP,B.QB4;    llQ-R6,0-0;    12QxP, 
P-KR3,  &c.    (Mortimer' V.  St.  Bon) :  or  9  . .,  B-QB4 ;    10  Q-B3,  B-Kt:  ;    11  Q.Kt3, 
0-0.     {Handbuch.) 

(3)  9  Kt-QB3,  B-KKt5 ;    10  Kt.Q5,  Kt x  Kt ;    11  Q x  Kt,  R-Qsq.    (M.  C.  I.) 

(4)  If  6  ..,KtxP;    7QB3,B-K3;    8KtxB,PxKt;    9  Q-R5ch+. 

(5)  Boden against Morphy played  7  . . ,  Kt x  B ;  8  P x  Kt,  B.Q3. 

(6)  Or  9  ..,  B-K2,  10  Kt.Q4,  P-B3=  (Gossip).  White may,  however,  play 
10  KKt-Q2 1,  (if)  B-KB4 ;     11  P-KB3,  &c. 

(7)  Steinitz prefers  11  ..,P-K6;  12BxP,BxB;  l3PxB,Kt-K6;  UKt-Baq, 
Q-B5ch ;    15  P-KKt3,  Q-B3 ;    16  P-B3,  B-B4 + . 

(8)  If  12  P-QKt3,  P X  P ;  13  P X  P,  B.R3,  &c. 

(9)  Black can recover the Pawn by either  16  . . ,  B x  Kt or  15  . . ,  Q x  P.  (B.  C.  Af., 
vol.  iV.,  p.  164.)  The moves to this point occur in a  game between feird and Tschigorin. 

(10)  6  Q-R6,  P-KKt3;  7  Q-BS,  QxKt;  8  BxKt,  Kt-Qsq;  9  Kt.B3,  Q-K2«. 
{M.  C.  1.) 

(11)  Or  11  B.R4  (Wayte),  P.KKt4;  12  B-KtS,  B.Kt2. 
<12)  Or  12  0-0,  or Q-K4  at once.    (Praser.) 

(13)  15  QxPch,  K.B2;  16  KtxKt,  PxKt ;  17  B x  Pch,  K-Bsq  ;  18  B-Kt3!, 
R.B4 1 ;  19  Q-K4,  Q-B2 ;  20  QR-Ksq,  B-K2 ;  21  P-Kt4,  R x  P ;  22  Q.R7,  K-Ksq, 
&c. 

(14)  9  P-Q4,  KtxBPch;  10  K-Qsq,  KtxP;  11  BxKtch,  K-Q3;  12  Q-B7, 
K-B4;  13  B-Kt5,  Q.Q2 ;  14  QxQ,  BxQ;  15  BxP,  R-QKtsq,  16  Kt-K4ch, 
K-Kt3 ;    17  B-Q5,  &c.    (W.  T.  Pierce).    If  9  B-KtS,  P-B3,  &c. 

(15)  The Handbuch gives  10  ..,  B-Kt2;  11  P.Q4,  Q-Q3,  12  P-QR3,  Kt-R3; 
13  B-KB4  +  .  The reply to  10  KtxP would be  10  ..,  P-B3;  11  Kt-B3,  B-R3I 
{M.  C.  I.) 

(16)  14  Q X  Pch,  K-Q2 ;    15  Q x  Kt,  Q-R5ch,  &c. 

(17)  If  5  KtxBP,  Q.R5;  6  0-0  (if  6  P-KKt3,  KtxKtP),  B.B4,  7  KtxR? 
(P.Q4  1),  KtxBP;  8  B-B7ch,  K-K2;  9  RxKt,  QxRch;  10  K-Rsq,  P.Q3 ; 
nP.KR3,B-B4-t-. 

(18)  6  P-Q3,  Kt-B3;  7  B-KtS,  P-Q4 ;  8  0-0,  P-KR3;-  9  Kt-B3.  B-KtS . 
10  R-Ksq,  Q.Q3,  11  Kt.B3,  P-R3 ;  12  B-KB4+  :  if  8  P-KB4?,  B-KtS ;  9  Q.Q2, 
K-Q2;  10  Kt-B7  (Gossip suggest.*  10  0-01),  Q-Ksq;  11  KtxR,  PxP dis ch  ; 
12  K-Bsq,  Kt-Q5 ;  13  Kt-B3,  B-QB I  -!- .  If  6  Kt x  Kt.  K x  B ;  7  QKt.B3,  P-KKt3  1 
(Gossip). 

(19)  If  6  . . ,  Kt-Q3  ;  7  Kt-K6 1  If  6  . . ,  P x  P ;  7  Q.K2.  If  6  . . ,  Kt-B3  or P.Q4. 
7PxP.    If6  ..,P-Q9,  orKtxQP;  7B-Q5. 

(20)  Or  9  P-Q6 1  here,  or on the twelfth move.    (C.  E.  R.) 

Table  29— THE TWO KNIGHTS'    DEFENCE. 

If P-K4,P-K4;    2  Kt-KBS.  Kt-QBS;    8B.B4.  Kt-BS; 
4  P.Q4.  PxP  (1). 

11 

12 

13 

14 

16 

5 

0-0 

P-K6 

KtxP!  (2) 

t-Q4 

6 

R-Ksq P-Q4       (3) 

B-QKt5 
Kt-K5 

7 
8 

BxP QxB Kt-B3 
Q-B5 

Q.KR4 

0-0 
B-QB4 
KtxP B-Q2 

KtxP B-Q2I BxKt  (10) 

Q-Qsq PxB 

9 

KtxKt RxKtch KixKt BxKt 

0-0 

B-K3       (4) 

B-K2 

B-K2       (7) 

PxB B-K2     (11) 

10 

P-QKt3  (5) 
Q-Q4 

KtxP P.B4! 

KtxP  — 
(8)  - 

B.K3 
Q-K2 

B-B4 
0-0 

11 

B-Kt5 
B-K2!    (6) 

R-B4 
0-0 

P.QB8  — 
(9)- 

Kt-QB3 
KtxKt 

12 

BxB KxB KtxKt QxQch PxKt  — 
P.QB4~ 

13 

Q-Bsq-f KtxQ- 
PxKt- 

9  B-KtS, 
12  Kt-K4.  Q-B2 ;    13  B.B4  ch,  K-Bsqj 

(1)  If4  ..,KKtxP;    5PxP-f-.    If4..,QKtxP;    5BxPcli, 

(2)  5' . . ,  B-B4  leads into Max Lange's Attack. 

(3)  6  . . ,  B-K2  (Schallopp) ;     7  E x  Kt,  P-Q4 ;     8  E x  Bch,  Kt x  E ; 
P.QB4 ;    10  P-B3,  PxP;    11  Kt x  P.  P-Q5 ; 
14  B.KKt5-f  {M.  C.  L) 

(4)  If  9  ..,B-K2;    10  B-B4. 

(5)  10 B-Kt5,  B-QKtS ;    11P-B3,  PxP; 

(6)  If  11  . . ,  B-QB4,  or K.Q2 ;   12  P.QB4 

(7)  Or  9  ..,  B-K3;     If  10  B.Kt5  (or KtxPt),  B.QKt5 
12  KE X  Q = .    {Handhuch.) 

(8)  ni0B-KKt5,  B-KKt5;    11  BxB,  BxKt;    12  Kt.B6ch,  PxKt: 
disch. 

(9)  If  11  ...QxP;    12E-Ksq. 

(10)  Or  8  K^^ Kt,  P X Kt ;    9  B.Q3,  B.QB4 ;    10 B x Kt,  Q.KE6 ;    11  Q.K2, PxB. 

(11)  Or  9  .1,  B.QB4.    Or  9  ..,  P-QB4 ;     10  Kt.KB3,  B-K3;    11  Q-K2,  P.QBS ; 
12  P.QB3»  B-«K2  {M.  C I)    Cols.  14  and  15  may occur in the Ginoco Piano. 

12PxP,B-E4+. 
If  11  ..,B.QKt5;  12P.B3I 
11  KtxP, 

QxQ; 
13  BxP V72  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  30.— THE TWO KNIGHTS'    DEFENCE. 

1P.K4,P.K4;     2Kt.KB3,Kt.QB3;     3B-B4,Kt-B3 

16                    17  18  19                    20 

KtxP     (1) 

K P-Q4  B-Q5       (7) 

P-Q4  QKtxP  (4)  Kt-B3 

Q-K2       (2)  KtxP BxKt B-KKt5  KFK3  QPxB 

7    J'xP KtxBP  (5)  KtxP QKtxP KxKt B-K3 

,    Kt-B3  BxKtch P-Qi    — 

P-Q3 

(8) 

P-Q4? 
PxP 

(9) 

KtxP 
0-0 

(10) 

B-K2     (11) 
R-Ksq  + 

10 

11 

12 
19 

P-KB4  KtxB K-Ksq     (6) 

BxP KtxKt Q-R5ch KtxKtch PxKt     (3)     P-KKt3 

PxKt QxKt Q-K5 

B-KR6!  BxKt Kt-B3 

KtxKt+        PxB B-Kt3  disch PxP B-K2 

R-Ksq ch B-R6 

B-K2  P-Q3 

Q-K4+  Q-K2+ 

(1)  Or  4  . . ,  B-B4 1  reverting to the Giuoco Piano. 

(2)  Or6B-QKt5.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(3)  Or  9  . . ,  B-K2 !  ^C.  E.  II.)    Steinitz adds  -f. 

(4)  Or5  ..,PxPt 

(5)  Or  7  B X  Kt  1  BP X  B ;    b Q.R5ch,  P.KKt3 ;    9  Kt x  KtP,  Kt-BS ;    10  Q.R4, 
R-KKtsq ;    11  Kt X  B  + .    (C.  E.  R.) 

(6)  Or  8   ..,  KxBI;     9  Q-Kt4ch,  K.B2;     lOQxKt,  B.K2:     orlO..,P.Q4, 
&o,    (C.  E.  R.) 

(7)  Or  5  Kt-B3  may be played.    (0.  E.  R.)    If  6  R-Ksq,  P.Q4.    This Col.  is from a  game Wisker v.  Boden. 

(8)  If  4  Kt-B3,  Kt X  P t.    See Four Knights'  Game. 

(9)  Schallopp against Bum.    Black's KP becomes weak in this variation. 

(10)  Or  6  Kt-Kt5,  (if)  P-KR3,  or B.K2 ;    7  Q^BS.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(11)  The Handbuch prefers  6  . .,  B-KKt5, 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

79* 

SECTION X 

u 

^K^         ^^^  HUNGARIAN DEFENCE. 

IP.K4.P-K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3;    8B.B4.B-K2. 

THE Hungarian Defence dates from Cozio  (1766),  and is considered quite sound,  but it has hitherto received comparatively little attention from Chess writers.  It was played in a  correspondence game between Paris and Pesth,  in order to avoid the Giuoco Piano.  The game was won by the Hungarians.  Jaenisch notices this debut as a  slow develop- 
ment for Black,  but it is not mentioned as a  regular opening by either Staunton,  Wormald,  Gossip,  Bird,  or Cook,  We find it,  however,  so described in the  ''classification nouvelle et m6thodique,"  appended to the 
"compte rendu du Congr^s de  1857."  It stops all combinations founded upon B  X Pch,  followed by Kt-KKt5.  Mr.  Potter speaks favourably of it, 
and notes that in playing  3  ...,  B-K2  Black supports his' Queen at the very moment she wants support.  The allusion is to the continuation of the position on the diagram by  4  P-Q4,  P-Q3 ;  5PxP,  PxP;  6QxQ, 
BxQ. 

The position taken up by the second player is similar to that which has been found most effective for meeting the Euy Lopez Attack ;  without the disadvantage of compromising the defence by an early advance of the Pawns on Queen's side.  The first player has for some time no scope for combinations.  Mr.  Potter notes that the effect of  5  P-Q5  (Col  2),  a natural move which appears at first sight to gain time,  is to deprive 
"White of the slight advantage properly belonging to the first move. 
Extended analysis of the opening is not required,  simplicity being its special characteristic.  By the  .continuation  4  P-Q4,  P-Q3 ;  6  P-B3, 
P-KB4  the defence is turned into a  variation of Greco's Counter Gambit, 
treated on page  29  (Col.  15). 

74  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table    81.— THE HUNGARIAN DEFENCE. 

8 

10 

1   P.K4.  P.K4;      2  Kt-KEB.  Kt-QBS;  3  B.B4(1), 

B-K2(2). 

12  8  4                     5 

P-Q4  P>QB       (7) 

'    F^Tj PxP P-Q3 

0-0         (3)     PQ5  P-B3  0-0                0-0 

'     Kt-KB3           Kt-Ktsq Kt-BS Kt-B3             Kt-B3 

.     P.Q5?             B-QB Q-B2  R-Kag  <6)    Kt-B3 

*    Kt-QKtsq Kt-KB3  PxP  (5)    0-0                0-0 

Kt-B3             0-0  PxP P-K5               Kt-K2 

0-0        (4)     FKIB P-Q4  Kt-Ksq P-QR3 

P-B4  PxP KtxP Kt-Kt3 

P-B3  KtxP P-Q4  Kt-QR4 

Kt-B3-BxKt KtxKt B-Kt3 

Kt.R3    —      QxB PxKt KtxB Kt-B3      —    B-Q3-RP x  Kt  (8) 
—    P-KtB  — 

(1)  Or Wtite may play  3  B.K2,  (if )  B.B4 ;  3  KtxP.    (Walter.) 

(2)  Or  3  . . ,  P-Q3  :  see game Macdonnell v.  Gunsberg,  p.  41  note  1. 

(3)  If  5  PxP,  PxP!;  6QxQ,  BxQ:  if  5  ..,  KtxP;  6  KtxKt,  PxKt; 
7Q-R5-f. 

(4)  Black,  according to Mr.  Potter,  has an excellent game.  He now proposes Kt-Ksq followed by P-KB4. 

(5)  Or  6  . . ,  0-0 !     If  6  . . ,  B.Kt5 ;  7  B.QKt5. 

(6)  P-K6,  Kt-KS  (if Kt-KKtS;  7  B-KB4);  7  B-Q5  (C.  E.  R.):  if  7  R-Keq, 
P.Q4,  &c. 

(7)  P-B3,  P-Q3 ;  5  0-0,  Kt.B3 ;  6  P.Q3,  0-0  ;  7  B.Kt3,  B.Kt5  ?  ;  8  P-KB3, 
B.R4;  9  P-KKt4  +  :  if  8  ..,  BxKt;  9  QxB,  to be followed poon by PKKtB. 
Q.Ki2,  K.Kt2,  and P-KB4.    (Steinitz.) 

(8)  Blackbume v.  Mason. 

SECTION XI THE GIUOCO PIANO. 

1P.K4,P-K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt.QB3;    8  3-34,  B.B4 

''PHE Giuoco Piano is a  quiet and regular opening,  leading naturally to 
1  a perfectly sound and strong game.  "The Pawns and pieces are gradually opposed to each other and changed off,  the result^  of the game being determined by the player's treatment of slight irregularities and disarrangements incydental to the process of exchanging.  Away from the main track there are numerous traps for the unwary and inexperienced player,  but,  as a  rule,  any attempt to hurry the action will recoil on the attempter.  Numerous attempts of this character have been made at various times.  The most interesting of these are now classified as regular openings,  notably the Evans Gambit,  the Tv/o Knights'  Defence,  and Mas Lange's Attack.  The Jerome Gambit is a  modern instance.  The variation which arises from the continuation  4  P-B3,  Kt-KB3 ;  5  P-Q4 
is another example,  although it is still classified as Giuoco Piano,  while that which springs from  6  P-Q3  has been called the Giuoco Pianissimo. 
The latter is,  however,  the sound,  quiet opening implied by the term 
"  Piano."  It has been adopted by Mr.  Blackburne in some of his most important match games. 

7©  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

II  ■  "  "  II II.     . ,. . ,  ■       

The opening is generally favoured by students because it enables them to make an apparently good stand for some time against stronger antagonists.  The following remarks by great players will be found par- 
ticularly applicable. 

(1)  The advance of the QP at the proper moment always appears to turn the tables on the first player of the Giuoco Piano.     (Staunton), 

(2)  Next to the QP,  the KBP is the strongest Pawn.  Lowenthal notes that Morphy never missed an opportunity of advancing the KBP when supported by the Rook.  The move is almost always formidable, 
and in this opening particularly potent. 

(3)  To pin the KKt in this opening before the adversary has castled is worse than useless.  He can push on his Pawns without fear and obtain command of the board.     (Wisker). 

(4)  After K-Rsq the capture of the pinned Knight,  opening the KKt file to the Rook,  must be deemed very hazardous.  (Wisker supported by Steinitz).  A similar capture of the Queen's Knight,  on the other side of board,  for the sole purpose of giving Black a  doubled Pawn,  is also questionable policy.  Mr.  Steinitz notes that the Queen's Rook at QKt sq after the file is opened is always a  considerable compensation. 

In making exchanges the chief points to be considered will be found in Mr.  Potter's Minor Principles given on page  16.  Black's play in CoL  14  will serve as an example. 

^^ 

TABLfi  82,^THE GIUOCO PIANO. 

1P.K4,P-K4;  2Kt-KB8,Kt-QB3;  3  B-B4,  B.B4(1);  4P-B8, 
Kt-BS;    SP.Q4,PxP:    6  PxP.  B-KtSch ;    7B-Q2. 

k 

8  4  5 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 

BxBch KtxKP QKtxB BxB    (10) 

P-Q4  KtxKP KFxB PxP      (2)  KtxKt  (5)  BxPch KKtxP P.Q4  K^B ' 

Q-Kt3  BxP      (6)  KKt-Kt5         Q-Kt8ch QKt-K2  QlTB  0-0         (9)    PxB plQi 

0-0  0-0         (7)  Q-R5  Q-R5  QxKt!(ll) 

0:0  B-Kt.5     (8)  B-B4  Q-K2  RliKFcJ KR-Ksq Kt-B3  KtxRP  0-0-0 -j-  Q-O P-QB3     (3)  BxKt+  BxQKt plQRi Kt-K5— (4)  KtxR Q.KtS Q-Kt3-  PxB.4.  K:r3 

Kt-B3    — 

(1)  3  . .,  P-B4  transposes into Cols.  13-16  p.  29:  see also p.  41,  note  1.  If  8  .., 
Kt-Q5  (tempting  4  Kt x  P,  Q-Kt4) ;  4  Kt x  Kt as in Bird's defence to the Lopez. 

(2)  Or9B-Q3. 

(3)  12  . . ,  Kt-B5  is inferior,  on account of R-K4  and QR-Ksq. 

(4)  Or  13  P-QR4 !   (Schiffers),  Kt-Kt3  (Steinitz).    Mr.  Ranken suggests  13  Kt-K4 1 

(5)  9  P-Q5,  Kt X  Kt ;  10  Q x  Kt,  Kt-K2 ;  11  P-Q6,  PxP;  12  Q x  P,  Kt.B4  (or 
0-0!);    13Q-Q5,  Kt-R3;    14  0-0-0.    (Steele.) 

(6)  10  B-Q3,  and  10  B-Kt5,  have also been analysed by Zukertort,  and found wanting.  Mr.  Ranken continues  10  B-Q3,  PxKt;  11  BxP,  Kt-K:2;  12  Q-Kt3, 
0-0 ;     13  R-Qsq,  &c. 

(7)  11  Kt-QB3,  Q-K3ch;  12  Q-K2,  QxQch;  13  KtxQ,  B-Kt5;  14  Kt-KS, 
BxKt;    15  KtxKt,  &c. 

(8)  If  11  . . ,  0-0 ;    12  Kt-B3,  Q-Qsq ;    13  P-Q5 -f .    (Zukertort.) 

(9)  If  10  . . ,  B-B4 ;     11  Kt x  BP  (Bowley),  K x  Kt ;    12  Kt-Kt3. 

(10)  8  0-0,  P-Q4  ;    9  R-Ksq,  0-0  ;     10  B-Q3,  R-Ksq;    11  Kt-B3,  B-KB4 ;     12  Kt- 
KKt6,  B X  Kt ;     13  P x  B,  Q.B3  + .    (Steele v.  Blackburne.) 

(11)  llKt-K5ch,  K-B3;    12QxKt,  P.B4;    13  Q-QR4,  Q.Kt3 1 :    if  13..,  Q-Ksq; 
li Q-Q8q+'    (Aibin V.  Tarwsch.) 

78 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  33.--THE GIUOCO PIANO. 

1P.K4,P.K4;   2Kt.KB3,Kt.QB3;   3B-B4.B B4;   4  PES. 
6  7  8  9  10 

4 

Kt-B3  ! 
P-Q4 

PxP P-K5 

(1) 

P.QKt4  (8) 
B-Kt8((iia.) 
P-Q3       (9) 

P-Q4  (2) 
B-QKt5!(8) 
Kt-K5  (dia.) 
PxP       (4) 

P-Q3 
P.QR4 

(13) 

B.Kt3 
0-0 

le 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

0.0 
Kt-B3 

B-KtS B-K3 

B-QKt5ch B-Q2 

BxBch  (6) 
QKtxB a:o 

0-0 

P-B4 

P X  P en pas KtxKt  (6) 
PxKt P-B4 
R-Bsq B-Q2 
Kt-Kt8 

QxP B-K2 

B-Ksq Kt-B5 

BxKt BxB Q-Bsq Q^Kt3 

Kt-K2 
Q-Kt3 

Kt-K2 
B.Q3 

QR.Qsq   — 
(Col. 

BxKtch PxB PxP B-Kt3 

Kt-B3 

P-KB4    (7) 

Px Pen pas QlTP KtxKt? 

PxKt Kt-K5 

OO B-K8 

P-B4 

0-0 

PxP BxP R-Qsq  -f P-QR4 
P-Kt6 

Kt-K2 
B-K3 

BxB  ! 
PxB P-B8 
0-0 

P-Q3     (11) 

P-QKt4(12) 

B.Kt3 

Q-Kt3 

Q-K2 

P-QR4  (18) 

P-QR4 

P-Kt5 

Kt-Qsq P-Q3 

Kt-KB3 

QKt-Q2 

Kt-K3 

Kt-Bsq 

0-0 
Kt-R3 

Kt-Kt3 
B-Kt3- 

Kt-B4 
Q-B2 
B-KS Kt-K3 

P.Q4— (10)     0-0      — 

6.) 

mwrwrmj 

(Col.  9.) 

''m^fmWm wm After Black's  7tb move. 

After Black's  5th move. 

Notes to Table  88. 

(1)  6  B-KKt5,  P.KR3;     7  BxKt,  QxB;    8  P.K5,  Q.B4I  (if KtxP,  Q-K2): 
90.0,PxP;    10  Kt X  P,  0-0 ;  &c. 

(2)  6  ..,  Kt-K5;  7  B-Q5?  (a),  KtxKBP;  8  KxKt,  PxPdch;  9  K-Kt3, 
PxP";  10  QBxP,  Kt-K2;  11  Kt-Kt5,  KtxB;  12  KtxBP,  0-0;  13  KtxQ, 
B-BTch;  14  K-R3,  P-Q3dch ;  15  P-K6,  Kt-B5ch  ;  16  K-Kt4,  KtxKP;  17  P-Kt3, 
KtxKtdch;  18  K-R4,  R-B5ch ;  19  K-Kt6,  Kt-K3ch;  20  K.R5,  P-Kt3ch ; 
21  K-R6,  R-R5ch ;    22  P x  R,  B-K6  mate.    ^Hoffman v.  Petrol!). 

(a)    7PxPI:    if  7  Q-K2,  P-Q4;     8  PxP en pas,  0-0  +  . 

(3)  7  P x  Kt,  P X  B  ;  8  P x  KtP,  R-KKtsq ;  9  B-Kt5.  P-B3  (or Q-Q3 1  C.  E.  R.) ; 
10  Q-K2ch,  Q-K2 ;    11  B x  P,  Q x  Qch ;     12  K x  Q,  P-Q6ch+ (Gunsberg), 

(4)  8  KtxP,  0-0;    9BxKt,PxB;     100-0,B.R3; 
(G.  V.  Steinitz.) 

UR-Ksq,P-B3;     12P-K6. 

(5)  Or  12  . .,  Ktx P  (B3) ;  13  B-K2,  &c.  If in this col.  Black play  10  . .,  P-B«, 
as in our first edition,  White may reply  11  Q-R4,    (C.  E.  R.) 

(6)  Or  9  . . ,  Q-K2,  or Kt x  B may be played. 

(7)  10. .,0-0;  110-0(P-KR3,C.E.R.),BTKt5;  12B-K3,  KtxKt:  l3PxKI, 
P.KB3 ;    14  P-QR4,  PxP;    15  P.R5,  P-K5  -I- .    (Gunsberg). 

(8)  If  5  Kt.Kt5,  0-0  ;  6  P.Q3,  P-KR3  (P-Q3I);  7  P-KR4,  P.Q3;  (if)  8  Q-B$. 
Q.K2-}-:    if6P.B4.  P-Q4I 

(9)  6  Q-Kt3,  0-0:  7  P-Q3  (a),  P-Q3;  8  P-QR4,  P-QR3 ;  9  P-R5,  B.R2; 
10  B-KKtS,  Q-K2;  11  0-0,  Kt-Qsq;  12  QKt-Q2,  Kt-K3;  13B-R4,  Kt-B5.  (Biiti V.  Rosenthal.)  If  6  P-Kt6,  Kt-QR4;  7  KtxP,  0-0;  8  Q-R4,  P-Q3;  9  Kt-B3, 
KtxB;     lOQxKt,  KtxP. 

runs  :— 7  Kt-Kt5,   BxPch;    8  K-Bsq  ?,  B-Kt3; 

(a)  A game  (Rowe v.  Ward) 

18P-Q4,  BxP;      14Kt.Q2,  Bxt 

9  Kt X  BP,  Kt X  KP  ;     10  K-K2,    5-R6  ;     11  R-Bsq,  Kt-B7  ;     12  Kt x  Pdch,  K-Rsq  ; 

17  K-Qsq,  Q-K8ch;     18  R x  Q,  K!t-B7  mate. 
(10)  Bird V.  Zukertort. 

16  Q X  B,  Kt-Q5ch  ;    16  K-Ksq,  Kt-Q6  dbl ch  ; 

(11)  4  ..,Q-K2;  5P-Q4,  B-Kt3;  6  0-0,  P-Q3,  &c.  If4..,P-B4;  5  P-Q4, 
PxQP;  6  Kt-KtS,  P.Q4 ;  7  BxP,  PxKP;  8  BxKKt,  RxB;  9  Q-R5ch,, 
P-KKt3;    10  QxRP,  Q-Q4;     11  P.QB4,  &c.    (Gossip). 

(12)  Bird v.  Flechsig.  An old form of this variation,  as played bet^veeu Labourdonnais and McDonnell,  also Staunton and Horwitz,  runs as follows ; — 
S P.Q4,  PxP;  6  PxP,  B-KtS ;  7  Kt-B3  iStaunton played P-Q5  first),  Kt-B3; 
8  P-Q5,  Kt-K4  (Kt.K2  permits Kt-Q4) ;    9  Kt x  Kt,  P x  Kt  = . 

(13)  OrP.QRSl 

>80 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  34.— THE GIUOCO PIANO. 

1P-K4,P.K4;    2Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3;    3B-B4.B-B4. 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

11 

P-B3 

Kt-B3 
P-Q3 

(1) 

P-Q3 

B-K3 

B-Kt3 

QKt-Q2 

Kt-K2 

Kt-Bsq FB3  ' 

Kt-Et3 

P-KR3 

Q-K2 

P-Kt4 

0-0-0 

Kt.Kt3 

P-Q4— 

Q-K2'~  (2) 

12 

Q-B2      (8) 

Kt-Kt3 

0-0-0 

OO P-Q4 

q:k21       ' 

PxP PxP         ' 
BxB PxB Kt-K3 
B-K8      (2) 

18 

B-Q5 

0-0 
BxKfc QPxB KtxP KtxP P-Q4 

B-Q3 
0-0 

(4) 

14 

P-< 

P-Q3 
P-KR3    (5) 

Kt-B3 
Kt-B3 

QKt-R4 

B-Kt3 
KtxB RPxKt P-B3 
Kt-QR4  7 

B-Kt5ch B-Q2 
BxBch QxB 
0-0 
Q-Kt5  ? 
P-KR3 
Q-R4      (6) 

15 
00 

P-Q3 
P-B3 

Kt-B3 
P-Q4 

(7) 

PxP PxP B-Kt3 
Kt-B3 

B-Kt5 
B-QKt5  (8) 
0-0 
B-K3 

Kt-K2     (9) 
Q-Q2 

P-B3 
B-Q3-f 

(1)  5  . , ,  P-Q4  ?;    6PxP,  KtxP;    7  P-QKt4,  foUowed by P.Kt5,  wins a  Pawn. 

(2)  Blackburne v.  Zukertort. 
<3)  Or9Q.K2f 

(4)  Byall v.  Narraway. 

(5)  If  5  B-K3,  Blaok may play BxB; 
Knights,  against Bishop and Knight. 

(6)-  13  Q-Il4ch  ?  ;     14   K.K2,   Q-B2  ; 
16  QR-KKtsq  !  :    good when practicable. 

(7)  5  ..,  B-KKt5;  6  Q-Kt3,  Q-Q2; 
9QxR,  BxKt;  10  PxB,  QxP  (B6),  &c. 
vemtured.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(8)  If  9  B-K3,  KtxKP.     (C.  E.  R,) 

(9)  10..,Q-K2;  ll BxKt,  PxB;  12  Q-B2. 

6  P X  B,  Kt-R4  to leave White with two 
15  P-KKt4,  Kt-R2  (Noa v.  Steinitz) ; 

7   BxPch,  QxB; 
(Mills V.  Marriott.) 

8  QxKtP,  K-Q2 
6  ..»B-K3may b€ 

10 

11 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.  «l Table  85.— THE GIUOCO PIANO. 

1P-K4,  P.K4;    2  Kt-KBS.  KtQBS;    3  B.B4.  B-B^* 

17  18  19  fO KtB3 

P-Q3  Kt-B3  Kt-B3 

R-Ksq P-Q3       (2)     P-Q3 

Kt-B3  P-Q3  P-Q3 

P-B3       (1)  B-KKt5  ?  B-K3.  Kt-QR4  0-0 

0-0  P-KR3  BlU§  BlM B-KKt5 

P-Q4  B-R4  Q-K2  KtxB B-KKt5?(5) 

B-Kt3  P-KKt4  !  Bl^3  RPxKt Kt^Q5 

PxP B-KKt3  B-Kt3    —       P~QR3    (4)    Kt-Q5 

Kt-KKt5  P-KR4  Q.K2     —  KtxKtch B.KKt5  Kt X  KtP PxKt BxPch F^5         "  B^R6 

K-Bsq KtxP R-Ksq BxR PxB P.KRS-f BxQ KtxQ Kt.K6ch4-  B-KKt?P 
(3) 

(1)  6Kt-Kt5?,BxPch:  7K-Rsq,  Kt-KKt5;-  8  BxPcb,  K-Bsq;  9  Kt-KGch, 
BxXt;    lOBxB,  BxR;    11  QxKt,  B-R5+. 

(2)  5  P-QKt4,  BxKtPl transposes into the Evans Gambit,  and  5  P-Q4  is Max Lange's Attack,  (See Note  1,  p.  83.)  If  6  ;P-B3,  KtxP;  6  P.Q4  (B-Q5!),  P.Q4; 
7B-QKt5,  PxP;    8PxP,  B-Q3.    (Eandbuch). 

(3)  Continued  12  Q-Q2,  lvt-Q5 ;  13  Kt-B3.  Black mates in seven moves  (Feddea v. 
Wayte).    If  11  Kt x  R,  Q-K2  and wins,  whether White play B-BTch,  or Kt-BT.^ 

(4)  .White plays to keep two Bishops on the board. 
(6)  No use until the opponent has castled* 

82  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

SECTION XII. 

MAX LANGE'S ATTACK. 

1P.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt.KB3,  KtQBS;    8B.B4,B.B4 
4  0-0,  Kt-KB3;    6  P.Q4. 

THE Max Lange Attack is not so much a  regular opening as a 
form of proceeding applicable to several openings.  It produces some fine and critical positions,  calculated to embarrass an inexperienced opponent,  and is thus a  formidable weapon in the hands of an expert. 
It is not generally considered quite sound against analysis,  nevertheless the second player,  who has the option in the matter,  will usually avoid the variations we have treated in Cols.  3-5,  and prefer to seek his advantage some other way.  The Max Lange has hitherto been classified as a  variation of the Giuoco Piano,  and we have made the opening moves in the same manner in order to introduce the defence  5  ...,  BxP 
(Cols.  1-2)  which is not favourable for the first player.  The more favourable form,  5  ...,  PxP  (Cols.  3-5),  may,  however,  be brought about in the Scotch Gambit,  thus:— 1  P-K4,  P-K4 ;  2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3; 
3P-Q4,  PxP;    4B.B4,  B-B4:     5  Castles,  Kt-B3 ;     6  P-K5,  &c. 

In the two Knights'  Defence it follows the moves — 1  P-K4,  P-K4 ; 
2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3  ;  3  B-B4,  Kt-B3  ;  4  P-Q4,  PxP;  5  Castles,  B-B4  : 
6  P-K5,  &c. 

It may also arise in the Bishop's Opening,  by  1  P-K4,  P-K4  ; 
2  B-B4,  Kt-B3  ;  3  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3  ;  4  P-Q4,  PxP;  5  Castles,  B-B4 ; 
6  P-K5,  &c. 

In tjhe Giuoco Piano there is a  similar variation,  but it does not turn out so  \tell for the first player,  viz. :  4  P-B3,  Kt-B3 ;  5  P-Q4,  PxP ; 
6  P-K5,  P-Q4,  &c.  The student will note that in all the previous openings above named,  White gains a  move by the sacrifice of his Queen's Pawn,  and that it is thiy sacrifice which makes the Max Lange playable.    It may easily be avoided by a  little attention to transpositxou 

6 

10 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

Table  36— MAX LANGE'S ATTACK. 

i P.K4.  P.K4; 

(1) 

BxP KtxB 

(2) 

KtxKt P-B4 

P-Q3 
PxP PxP B-KKt5(dia) 

Q-K2! 
P-B3 

Kt-K3 
QBxKt PxB P-QKt4 

(3) 

R-KKtsq(4) 

2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3; 
4  Castles,  Kt-B3. 

i  8 

B-K3 
BxKt i^) 

PxB BxB KtxB Kt-QB3 
P-QB3 
QxQ RxQ RxP R-Q7 
R-B2 

RxR KxR Kt-Q5  + 

PxP? 
P-K5 

P-Q4! 
PxKt 

(6) 
(7) 

PxB R-Ksqch(8) 
K-Bsq  7 
B-Kt5!  * 

PxP B-R6cli 

(9) 

K-Ktsq Kt-B3 

B-B4 
Kt-K4 

(10) 

B-KBsq Q-Q2 

BxB QxB 

(11) 

BxKt  (12) 
RxB P-B4 
Kt-R4-f 

3B.B4,  B.B4; 

5 

(dia.) 

PxPch KxP Kt-K5 !  (13) 

KtxKt  (14) 

RxKt B-K2  !  (15) 

Q-R5 

P-KR3  (16) 

R-Q5 

B-Q3 

B-B4 

Q-B3 

BxB PxB Kt-Q2  + 

grKT" 

Kt-Kt5 

Q-Q4     (17) 

Kt-QB3(18) 

Q-B4 

P-KKt4(19) 

Q-Kt3   (20) 

QKt-K4(21) 

B-Kt3 

P-B4 

(22) 

0-0-0 
P-B5 

BxP PxB QxP(B4) 
PxP+(23) 

(1)  If  5  P-QKt4,  BxKtP;  6  P-B3,  B^K2;  7  P-Q4,  P-Q3;  8  Kt-Kt5,  0-0; 
9  P-B4,  P-KR3;  10  BPxP,  PxP;  9  KtxP,  RxKt;  10  BxRcb,  KxB; 
11  Q-R5ch,  K-Ktsq+  :    if  5  ..,  B-K3 ;  6  P-Kt5l 

(2)  If5  ...QKtxP;    6  KtxP,  Kt-K3;    7  BxKt,  BPxB;    8  Kt-Q3+ 
(3)  Or  11  ...  Q-B4chl ;    12K.Rsq,  QxB;    13BxKP,  0-0+.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(4)"  Mr.  W.  T.  Pierce prefers  10  Kt-R3  :  also after  10  P-B3,  Kt-K3  ;  11  KB x  Ktt, 
PxB ;    12  P-QKt4.  B.Q2  ;    13  Q-B3,  &c.    kB.  C M.,  1889,  p.  464.) 

84 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

I 

11] 

12) 
(13) 
14 

(5)  10  Kt-R3,  Q-K2;  11  P-B3,  BxB;  12  KtxB,-  Kt-K3;  13  BxKfc  (or  13 
B.K3,  Pierce),  PxB  [or  13  . .,  Q-B4ch !  as in note  3.  {C.  E.  R.)]  ;  14  Q-R4oh» 
P.B3;  15  Kt-K3,  R-KKtsq;  16  K-Esq,  Kt-B4;  17  Q-B2,  0-0-0;  18  QR-Qsq, 
RxR;  19  RxR,  R-Qsq-;  20  P-QKM.  (Minckwitz v.  Anderssen)  :  Cordel gives 
16Kt-Q5,  Q-B4ch;  17  K-Rsq,  0-0-0 ;  ISKtxP.  If lOBx B,  KtxB;  llQxQoh, 
RxQ;    12BxKt,  PxB;     13RxP,  Kt-B5:    or  13  Kt-BS,  R-Q7. 

(6)  If  6  . .,  Kt-K5;  7  B-Q5,  or R-Ksq I 

(7)  If7B-QKt5,Kt-K5;  8  KtxP,  B-Q2-F. 

(8)  If  8  PxP,  R-KKt§q;  9  B-Kt5  (if  9  R-Ksqch,  B-K2),  B-K2;  10  BxB, 
KxB;    11  R-Ksq ch,  B-K3  ;    12Kt-Kt5,  RxP;    13  Q-R5,  Q-Q4,  &c. 

(9)  If  9  . .,  Q-Q4  ;   10  Kt-B3,  Q.B4 ;   11  Kt-K4-f-. 
(10)'  11  . . ,  B-KKt5 ;   12  Kt-K4,  &c. 

If  13  ..,B-Kt3;   14BxB,  QxB;   15  Kt x QP,  R-Qsq ;   16P-QB3-i-. 

If  14  . . ,  B-Kt3  ;   15  Kt-R4  + .     (Gossip). 

10  Kt-Kt5,  R-Ksq ;   llRxR.QxR;   12KtxRP,B-B4;   13  Kt-Kt5,  B x  P  + . 

10  ..,  B-K3;  11  Q-R5,  B--KBsq ;  12  Kt-Kt4,  P-KR3  (R-KKtsq!); 
13  B X  Pch,  K-Ktsq ;  14  R x  B and wins.  (Praxis.)  If  10  . . ,  R-Ksq ;  11.  B-R6ch, 
K-Ktsq ;    12  Kt x  Kt,  &c. 

(15)  11  ..,  B-Q3;  12  R-Kt5ch,  K-Bsq;.  13  Q-R5,  Q-K2;  14  K::.Bsq,  P-Q6; 
15  K:t.B3,  B-K3,  16"  R-Kt7,  KxJl;  17  B-R6ch,  K-Ktsq;  18  Kt-Q5,  Q-Qsqr 
19  R-Ksq,  B-KBsq  ;     20  R-K3  + . 

(16)  12  . . ,  R-Ksq ;  13  B.R6ch,  K-Ktsq ;  14  6-Q5,  B-Bsq ;  15  Kt-Q2,  Q-K2,  &c. : 
if  13  Q-R"6ch,  K-Rsq  ,     14  R-R5,  B-KB4 ;     15  R x  B  ?,  B-Kt4  and wins. 

(17)  If  9  ,.,  0-0;  10  RxB,  PxR;  11  P-B7ch,  K«Rsq;  12  Q-R5,  P-KR3; 
13  Q-Kt6-|-.     Mr.  Loman suggests  9  . . ,  PTKKt3. 

(18)  If  10  PxP,  R-KKtsq,  11  KtxRPxB-K2:  or  11  Kt.QB3, Q-B4';  12P.KKt4, 
Q-Kt3 ;     13  QKt-K4,  B-K2  instead of to Kt3(Loman). 

Or.  11  QKt-K4,  B-KtS ;     12  KtxB,  PxKt;     13  P-B7cli,  K-Q2. 
If  11    .,QxP(B3);    12  QKt-K4,  Q-;K2  ;     13  KtxQB,  PxKt ;    14  B-Kt5. 
Ifl2RxBch,  PxR;     iSKtxP,  B-Q3;     14  Kt x  KtPch,  K-Q2 ;    15  Kt.Q5> 
If  12  KtxB I  PxKt;'    13  RxPch,  K.-B2;     14  Kt-Q5,  B-Q3;    15  P-B4, 

Or  13  Kt x B I P x Kt ;  =14  P-B7ch,  Q x  P I ;  15  Kt-Kt5,  Q-Q2;  16  Kt xKP+ 
(Wormald.) 

(23)  White will now be able to play K-Rsq and B-Bsq     (Gossip.) 

(19) 
(20) 
(21) 

Kt-K4. 

P-KR4 
(22) 

1 

(Col.  1.) 

(Col.  a.) 

After White's  9tb move. 

After White's  8th move. 

SECTION XIII. 

THE JEROME GAMBIT. 

1  P.K4,  P-K4;     2  Kt-KBS,  Kt-QB3;     3  B.B4.  B.B4; 

4  BxPch. 

THE Jerome Gambit is an  •  American invention,  and a  very risky attack.  It is described in the American Supplement to Cook's Synopsis as unsound but not to be trifled with.  The first player sac- 
rifices two pieces for two pawns,  with the chances arising from the adversary's King being displaced,  and drawn into the centre of the board. 
*'  The defence requires study,  and is sometimes difiicult."  It may be added that it is equally difficult for the first player to maintain the attack. 

After  4  KxB  ;  5  KtxPch,  KtxKt;  6  Q-R5ch,  Black may obtain a  safe game by K-Bsq  (Col.  4),  or he may follow out Mr.  Steinitz's theory that the King is a  strong piece which not only possesses great power for defensive purposes,  but can be made use of fgr the attack early in the game,  with the object of being posted more favourably for the ending in the centre of the board.     (Cols.  1-3). 

Mr.  S.  A.  Charles of Cincinnati,  Ohio,  is named in the American Supplement as the chief analyst of this opening.  It is very rarely practised,  but as a  similar sacrifice of a  minor piece for two pawns to stop Black from casthng may often occur in the King's Knight's opening,  we give the Jerome Gambit as a  representative form of this kind of attack on its merits,  showing its strength and weakness apart from accidental circumstances,  which in actual play may materially affect the result. 

86  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  87.— THE JEROME GAMBIT. 

1 

1   P.K4.   P.K4;     2  Kt-KBS,  Kt-QB3;     3  B-Bi,  B.B4; 
4  BxPch.  KxB;    5  KtxPch,  KtxKt. 

1  .2  8  4  5 

Q-R5ch P-Q4 

K-K3       (1)  ETBsq BxP Q>B5ch  (2)  QxKt QxB iTQ3  Q-K2  QB3      (6) 

P.Q4  P-KB4  Q.B5ch Q-Qsq BxP Q-B3  K-Ksq P-Q3 

Kt-R3  PxKtcb Kt-B3  00 

^     Kt-K2?  (3)     P-B3  QxP P-Q3  P-KKt3 

Q-R3  P-B3  Q-B3  Q-B3  P-KB4 

*^     Q-Bsq Q-B3  Kt-B3  Q-B2       (4)    Kt-B34. 

Kt-Kt5ch PxB P-Q3  Q-K2 

"     1k:B4  QxQ K-B3  Kt-R3     (6) 

KtxB PxQ Kt-B3  00 

^^     KxKfc Kt-B2  P-Q3+  P^B8  + 

Q-K3ch B-B4ch 

^^     K^^5  K-K2  + 

14 

P-QR44- 

(1)  If  6  ..,  Kt-Kt3;     7  Q.Q5ch,  K-Ksq;     8  QxB,  P.Q3  ;     9  Q-B3,  Kt-BS  ; 
lOP.QS,  K.B2.4- 

(2)  If  7  P.KB4,.  P.Q3.    If  7  0-0,  P.Q3 ! ;    8  Kt.B3,  Kt-B3  +  :  or  7  . . ,  P.KKt3  ; 
8  Q-R3ch,  K moves;  ■  9*Q-QB3.     {A.  S.) 

(3)  9  . .,  K-B3  +  .     {A.  S.)    Op  9  . .,  Q-B3  which might also be played in lieu of 
10-..,Q-B6q.    (C.E.R.) 

(4)  OrKt-B3l    (E.  F.) 

(5)  Or  11  Kt-K2  or Kt,.B3.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(6)  If  7  P.Q3,  Kt-B3 ;  .8  Q-B3,  Ac. :  or  8  . .,  Kt-B3^ 

b-< 

SECTION XIV. 

I» 

THE EVANS GAMBIT.      Part I. 

irP.K4,P-K4;     2Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3;    3B.B4.BB4; 
4  P-QKt4,  BxKtP. 

OF the Evans Gambit it may well be said that it is the product oi innumerable minds.  Walker,  writing in  1841,  notes that  "  it was introduced some seven years ago by my friend Capt.  Evans,  R.N.,  who presented its leading variations in M8.  at the same time to Mr.  Lewia and myself,"  It is usually described by Chess writers as a  variation of the Giuoco Piano,  the first three moves being the same in both openings. 
At this stage the first player by the sacrifice of one of his least valuable Pawns obtains so much command of the board that while forwarding his own game he can keep his opponent occupied with defensive measures for a  longer time than is possible in any other opening.  This can be done in such a  variety of ways that the Evans is practically half a  dozen openings in one.  After  5  P-B3  it branches in two directions,  with different surroundings and characteristica We have treated them as if they were separate openings.  The continuation  5  ,  B-B4  has been chiefly favoured by British players,  and  5  ...,  B-R4  by the Germans.  There is a  point of fusion in what is known as the normal position  (see diagram)  after the moves  6  0-0,  P-Q3  ;   7  P-Q4,  P x  P ;  8  P x  P.  B-Kt3. 

Starting from the above position the practice of the Chess world lingered for a  while over such moves as  9  P-KR3,  9  Kt-Kt5,  9  B-R3,  <%c., 
the general idea being to prevent Black castling and institute a  harassing attack on his centre.   As the defence became strengthened all moves of the 

88  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

I it il merely protective and constructive order were discarded,  as loss of timely while directly attacking moves were held back as possibilities and coupled' 
with some preparatory move.  9  Kt-B3  is one of ihe best of these pre liminaries.  After the reply  9  ...,  B-KKt5  it combines well with  10  Q-R4 
This variation was analysed and brought into vogue by Mr.  Geo.  B,; 
Fraser,  supplemented by Mr.  James Mortimer,  and is known as the Fraser-Mortimer attack.  The move  9  Kt-QB3  also initiates several other variations in which White aims at securing an early advantage by vigorous action.  Of these,  one of the most popular at present is thaf commencing  9  Kt-B3,  Kt-E4 ;  10  B-KKt5,  &c.— Dr.  Goring's attack. 

Another combination,  leading to a  more enduring .  if less violeni attack,  springs out of the normal position from B-Kt2,  preceded oi followed by P-Q5.  A second normal position is produced by the moves 
9  P-Q5,  Kt-R4  ;  10  B-Kt2,  Kt.K2 ;  11  B-Q3,  0-0  ;  12  Kt.B3,  Kt-Kt3  J 
13  Kt-K2,  P-QB4  :  14  Q-Q2,  P-B3.  Here the practice varies.  Whit may play  15  R-QBsq,  or K-Rsq  (Anderssen's move),  or B-B3.  The" 
game really begins afresh at this stage.  This fine variation was first elaborated by Herr Anderssen  /or the attack,  and Herr L.  Paulsen fo; 
the defence.  Black is allowed to castle,  and White attacks him ia.' 
his intrenchments.  The heavy pieces act as supports until called int action by the progress of the game. 

There is yet another form of defence which has the merit of ieing advocated by Mr.  Steinitz.     It arises out of the normal position by thd^, 
moves  9  P.Q5,  QKt-K2 ;  10  P-K5,  Kt-R3.    This variation has not yet| 
been thoroughly investigated,    appearances being somewhat against" 
it.    Its effect is to expose the Black King,  but this is not regarded by Mr.  Steinitz as a  permanent disadvantage. 

With regard to other deviations from the mainplay they have been at various times subjected to searching analysis,  and every departure has, 
as a  rule,  some penalty attached to it against the best play.  There are, 
however,  two or three moves in Anderssen's attack  (after  9  P-Q5,  Kt-R4) 
concerning which the authorities- are not unanimous,  notably Black's moves  10  ...,  Kt-K2  ;  12  ...,  Kt-KKt3  ;  and  13  ...,  P-QB4.  So far there has been no convincing evidence produced either against them or in favour of alternative moves. 

The time gained in this dShut,  by sacrificing the.  QKtP,  so far strengthens various forms of attack,  which are inconclusive in othdr openings,  as to make them irresistible in the Evans.  The second player must carefully avoid, giving his opponent an opportunity of introducing such variations.  Thus Black must not risk Max Lange's attack by playing Kt-KB3  before P-Q3.  On the other hand White's game has to be constructed with special attention to economy of force.  A single false,  or oven weak move,  is sufficient to cause an immediate collapse.  With care and patience Black may hope to win by means of his extra Pawn,  but the balance between force on one side and position on the other is so e"Ken that there is practically an equal chance for both players.  Any prema- 
ture attempt to force the game will lose it. 

The Evans is eminently an opening for great players,  and has led como of the finest games in Chess literature. 

« 

THE-  KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

89 

Table SS.—THE EVANS GAMBIT.     (Pakt I.) 

P-K4,P-K4;    2Kt-KB3,Kt-QB3;    3BB4,B.B4; 
4   P-QKt4,   BxKtP;    6P-B8. 
12  8  4  5v 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

B-K2 
Q-Kt3 

Kt-R3 
P-Q4 

Kt-R4 
Q-R4 

KtxB QxKt PxB PxP P-Q3 
0-0 

(1) 

PxP BxKt     (2) 

R-KKtsq K-Rsq Q-Q2 
Kt-B3 

(3) 

P-QB3 
P-Q5 

RxP R-KKtsq 

16    RxBP    (4) 

P-Q4 

Kt-R4      (6) 
KtxP     (6) 
KtxB KtxKt P-Q4 
PxP QxP Kt-K3 

Q-Qsq-B-Q3 
P-Q4 

(7) 

Kt-B3      (8) 
0-0 
P-KR3 
KtxP BxKt PxB QKtxP B-Kt3 

P-Q3 

P-KB4 

Kt-B8 

B-R3 

B-K3 

Kt-Q2  + 

KtxKt PxKt BxP P-B4 

B-Q3 
P.K5 

B-B4ch K-Rsq P-Q4 
PxKt B-K3 
PxP Kt-Kt6 

PxB R-Ksqch R-KKtsq Q-R5  -f 

0-0 
P-B4 

PxBP P-K5 

BxP PxB KtxP B.Kt3 

P-KR3 
Kt-KR3 

P-Q3       (9) 

(1)  5  ...  B-Bsq;    6  P-Q4, 
Anderssen);     7  0-0,   P-Q3 ; 
(Tschigoriu v.  Steinitz.) 

Q-K2  (if  6  ..,  PxP;    7  0-0,  Kt.R4;     8  BxPch: 
8  Q-Kt3,  P.KKt3;     9  PxP.   PxP;     10  R-Qsq. 

(2)  Or  10  P X  P,  P.Q3 ;  11  Kt-B3.  P-QB3  ;   12  0-0,  &c. 

(3)  Or  14  Kt-Q2 1 .     (0.  E.  R.) 

(4)  17  R-Kt3,  P-QB4 ;  18P-K5  +  .    (Labourdonnais v.  Boncourt and Mouret.) 

(5)  If  6  . . ,  P X  P ;  7  Q-Kt3,  Kt-R4 ;  8  B x  Pch,  K-Bsq ;  9  Q-R4,  &c.    (Handbuck.) 

(6)  Or  7  B-Q3 1  ^C.  E.  R.) 

(7)  6  0-0,  Kt-R4;     7  KtxP  (B.K21  0.  E.-  R.),  BxKt;     8  BxPch,  KXB; 
9  Q-R5ch,  K-Bsq ;     10  Q x  B,  Kt-QB3,  &c. 

(8)  Or  6  ..,  Q-K2;     7  0-0,  Kt-B3;    '8  R-Ksq+.     If  6  ;.,  P-KBS,     7  0-0, 
KKt K2 ;    ,8  Kt X  P  (C.  E.  R. ) :  Di%  Hunt suggests  7  . . ,  Q-BS I 

(9)  Anderssen v.  Kiegeritzky. 

90  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  89.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.     (Part I.) 

1   P.K4,   P-K4;    2    Kt-KBS,   Kt-QB3;    8  B-B4,   B-B4; 
4P-QKt4,  BxKtP;  5P-B3,  B-B4;  6P-Q4,PxP;  7PxP(l). 

6  7  8  9  10 

7 

8 

B-Kt5ch B-Kt3 

K-Bsq  0-0         (6) 

Q-K2       (2)  P.Q3 ! 

PK5  P-QR8 P-QR4     (7)    R-Ksq P-Q3  (8)     B-R4                B-Kt5      (8)  Kt-R4  B-Kt5    (12) 

P-Q5  R-R2                B-QKt5  (9)  BxPch(lO)  B-QKt5(13) 

^"    KtxP P-QKt8            BxKt KxB BxKt  (14) 

QR4cb P-K5       (5)     PxB Kt-Kt5ch PxB 

^^     K-Bsq!  B-Kt2              P.QR8  K-Ksq Q-R5 

QxB P.Q5    —         BxKtch P-K5  B-K3 

1^    KtxKt  :=--     PxB PxP     (11)  KKt.K2 

PxKt P-R5  RxPch P-Q5 

13  B-R6ch B-R2  Kt-K2  BxB K-Ktsq Kt-B8  Q-B3  RxB 

14  Q-B3  Kt-K2  R-Bsq  0-0 
B-Q8  Kt-K2  —  QR5ch PxKt 

15  QxP-f(4)  —  P-Kt8  Q-Kt4ch Q'x RP K-Rsq 

16 

QxB 

(1)  U7  0-0,  P-Q3!.  if  7..,  P-Q6?,  8Kt.Kt5,  <fec:   if  7.. .PxP;  SBxPch,  «&c 

(2)  If  8  ..,  Kt-B3,  9  P-QR3.  B-R4  ;    10  P-Q5,  Kt.K2;   11  P-KS-f. 

(3)  If  9  ..,  P-QKt3;   10  P-QR3,  and  11  R-R2.  (C.  E.  R.) 

(4)  If Black had played  11  . . ,  B-Q2  White would now continue by  16  Q.K4ch. 

(5)  If  11  R-K2,  B-Kt2  and  0-0-0. 

(6)  8  B-Kt2,  Kt-R4  ;  9  P-Q5,  Kt-K2  ,   10  B-QS.  P-Q3.     (Birt.) 

(7)  9  B-R3,  Kt-R4 ;  10  B-Q3,  Kt-K2 ;  11  P-K5,  0-6-H^  or  9  . . ,  B-Kt6 ; 
10  Q-R4,  B-Q2  ;  11  Q-Kt3,  Kt-R4-|..  9  P-KR3  is met by Kt-E4,  10  B-Q3  Kt-K2: 
9  B-KKt5  rans into Cols.  12-15. 

<8)  9  ..,Kt-R4;  10  B-R2,  Kt-KB3;  11  Q-B2,  0-0;  12  P-K6,  Kt-Ksq ;  13  Kt- 
Kt6,  P-Kt3;    14P-K6-I-. 

(9)  Or  10  B-Kt2.   (0.  E.  R.) 

no)  Or  10  Kt-B3,  B-Kt5 ;  1 1  P-K5  -|- ;  10  B x  Pch is by Mr.  Hatvey and appeared in the Dubuque Journal.     White draws at least. 

(11)  If  12  .V,  P-Q4 ;    13  Q-B3,«  Kt-R3  (if  13  . . ,  Q-K2;    14  B-R3) ;    14  Q-R5ch. 

(12)  If  9  ..,  Kt-B3;  10  P-K6,  PxP;  11  P-Q5,  Kt-K2;  12  KtxP,  0-0; 
13B-R3  +  .    (Gossip) 

(13)  10  Q-Kt3  is inferior. 

(14)  If  10  ..,"K-B.^<Jk  11  BxKt,  PxB;  12  PKd,  Kt.K2;  13  B-Kt6,  &c. 
The Col.  iB Burn v.  De Vere; 

I II THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.  dV Table  40.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.     (Pabt L) 

1P.K4,   P-K4;     2Kt-KBa.   Kt-Q B  3  ;     8B-B4,    B B4; 

4P-QKt4,    BxKtP;      5P-B3,    B-B4;      6  0-0,    P-Q3; 

7P-Q4,P.xP;    8PxP,B.Kt3.    (Diagram p.      .) 

11  12  13  14  15 

q Kt-B3  ___ 

Kt-BS?  KFSi 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 

16 

PK5  B-KKt^  (2) 

PxP P-KB3.(8)  Kt-K2 

BR3  B-B4       (4)                          BxKt Kt-Qo    (11) 

Kt-QR4  (1)    KT^^B RxB  "(8)    P-KB3  (12) 

R-Ksq Q-R4ch BR4  BxP KtxB Q-Q2  K-B2       (7)    B-Kt5  PxB Q-R4ch QxKt Q  x Ktch PK5 !  KtxKBPch P-B3  QB2       (5)  BK3              QPxP K-Bsq QxKt KtQ5  P-Q5               RKsq Kt-Kt5 

B-K3  Bl(3  B-Q2               BxKt Kt-Ktsq! 

RxP Q-R4ch Kt-K2—       QxB KKt x  Pch  (18) 

^^    Q-Q2  B-Q2  Kt-K2  —       QxP K-Kt2 

RxBch Q-R3                                    R-K4  (9)    Q-R5 

PxR R-Bsq Q-Q2  'QxKi KtK5+  KR-Ksq  (6)                          RQsq KtxQ 

1"^                                                                     QB2  (10)    ExQ    (14) 

(1)  nil  .,,BxP;    12Q-Kt3  +  . 

(2)  If  10  Kt-Kt5,  R-Ksq,  or B-R3,  then Kt x  B  :  if  10  B-Q3,  Kt-K2 ;  11  P.K5, 
P.Q4.  If  10  B X  Pch,  K X  B  ;  11  P-K5,  K-Bsq ;  12  P-Q5,  B-KB4+  :  if  13  B-B:?^  or Kt.Q5,  K:t-QB3  +  .     (Gossip.) 

(3)  Or  10  ..,Q-Q2.  . 

(4)  Preferable to  11  B-R4. 

(5)  Or  13  . .,  P-B3 :  or  13  . .,  Kt-K2  followed by Kt-Kt3,  and Q-B2. 

(6)  To follow with P-K5  and B-Kt5  if,  and when necessary  (Blake).  If  17  K^xR RP X  Kt ;  18  Q-R7,  Kt-K2  ;  19  KR-Bsq I .  if  19  Q x  P  (Kt7),  B-B3  :  If  19  QR-Baq, 
B-Kt4  ;    20  KR-Ksq,  Kt-B3,  &c. 

(7)  Or  12  . . ,  P-B3  ;   13  Q x  Kt,  Kt-K2. 

(8)  Or  11  . . ,  P X  B.    The Col.  is Showalter v.  Logan. 

(9)  16  Q-R5ch I  (if)  P-Kt3 ;   17  Q x  RP,-  0-0-0 ;  18  Kt-K2.  (C.  E.  R.) 

(10)  Mr.  Ranken continues by  18  Q-B5  +  . 

(11)  If  11  B X  Pch,  K X  B  ;    12  Kt-Q5.  R-Ksq  !  (Tschigorin v.  Gunsberg). 

(12)  11  . . .  Kt X  B :  12  B X  Kt,  Q-Q2 ;  13  B-B6  (Mackenzie),  Q-Kt5 ! ;  14  P-KR3, 
Q.Kt3;     15  Kt-R4,  Q-R3.  or  14  Q-R4ch,  P.B3;     15  Q x  Kt,  PxKt  +  . 

(13)  If ISQKtxPch.  K-Kt2;  16  Q-R5  (if  16  BxKt,  QxB:  if  16  Kt.B7,  Q-R5), 
KtxB;  17  Q-B7ch,  K-R3  ;  18  QxKt(B5),  RxKt;  19  KtxR,  KxKt+. 
If  15KtxKt,  QxKt;  16  Q-B3ch,  B-B4;.  17B-K6,  Kt-B3  +  .  If  15  BxKt.  QxKt; 
16  Ktx Pch,  RxKt;     17BxR,  BxP-f. 

(14)  18KtxRch,K.E3;  19  BxKt,  KxKt;  20  QR-Qsq,  Kt-B3;  21  P.Q5^ 
E:t-K4+  (Berger). 

n THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  41.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Part I.) 

1P.K4,  P-K4;     2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QBS;     3B.B4.    B.B4; 

4  P-QKt4,  BxKtP;      5  P-B3,  B-B4;      6  0-0,   P-Q3? 

7  P-Q4,  PxP;     8  P xP,  B-Kt3.      (Piagram p.  87.) 

10 
11 
12 
18 
14 
15 
16 
17 

la 

19 
20 
81 

16 

Kt-B3 

17 

18 

19 

20 

B-Kt5 
B-QKt5 

(1) 

Q-R4      (9) 

BxKt  (10) 

B-Q2 

K-Bsq 

(2) 

B.Q2 

BxKt 

(3) 

P.K6 

P-Q5 

Q-Kt3 

PxB PxP      (6) 

B-Kt5    (11) 

Kt-R4 

P-K5 

(4) 

R-Ksq     (7) 
KKt-K2 

PxKt PxP BxPcb BxKt K-Bsq PxB P-Q5 

QxPch(12) 

Q-B2!  (13) 

PxP QKtKtsq(8) 

B-Q2 

KxB  (dia.) 

B-R3ch B-QB4 

Q-Q5 

P-K5     (14) 

Kt-K2 

0-0 

B-K3 

K-Bsq P-KR3 

PxP KtxP B-Kt5ch R-Ksq P-Q5 

QxQ 

(5) 

B-KB4 

K-Bsq Kt-QB3 

Kt-KB3 

KRxQ B-KKt5 

Q-Q3 

B-Kt5    (15) 

P-K6ch K-Ksq  + 

B-B4 

Kt-K2 

Q-Ksq BxP    (17) 

KtxP B-Kt5 

P-K6 

PxBch RxKt. 

P-KB3 

Q-Kt3 

KxP P-Q6 

B-K3 

QxQ R-Ksqch(18i BxPch K-B2 

PxQ K-B2 

KxB P-B4 

PxB Kt-KR4 

B-K8disch P-KB4 

Kt-B3   (16) 

Q-Q2 

K-Ktsq BxB Q-Kt6ch BxB RPxB K-Bsq PxKt+ 

B-B4   -^ 

Kt-B5 

Qz33-i: 

i^HE KIHCVH KNIGHT'B OPENING. 

98' 

li Notes to Table  41. 

Q-B3;  12  Kt,-Q5, 
P-QE4  (or Kt-R4I 
:    15  Q-B2,  BxKtl; 

(1)  Mr.  Steinitz recommends  9  -. .,  QKt.¥2.;    (if)  10  Kt-KKt5,  Kt-Il3 ;     11  P.B4, 
P.Q4;    12QKtxP,  KtxKt;     13PxKt,  0-0+:   if  13  BxKt,    P.QB3,  &c. 

(2)  10.., BxKt;    11  PxB,  K-Bsq;     12  Kt-K2 :   if  11  .., 
Q X  QP ;    13  Kt x  Pch.    Or Black may play  10  . . ,  P-QR3 1 

(3)  11  B-K3,  KKt-K2  (or QKt-K2  Steinitz);    12  P-QR4,^ 
Gossip) ;     13  B-QB4.     (Petersburg v.  London.) 

■(4)  Or  12  B-K3,  Kt-K2;     13  Kt-K2,  Q-Q2 ;     14  Q-Kt3,  Q-K3 

16  P X  B,  QR-Ksq.    (Macdonnell v.  Bird.) 
(5>  If  15  . . ,  B-Q5  ? ;   16  Q-B2,  B x  KP ;  17  QR-Qsq,  B-Q3 ;  18  Kt-K4  + . 

(6)  11  . . ,  KKt-K2 ;    12  B-Kt5,  P-KR3 ;     13  P-K6,  P x  P  ;     14  B x  KKt,  Q x  3 ; 
15  P-Q5,  Kt-K4 ;    16  Kt x  Kt,  P x  Kt ;     17  Q.R5ch  + .    {Schachzeitung.) 

(7)  Or  12  P-Q5,  Kt-Ktsq ;     13  Kt x  P,  Kt-K2 ;     14  Q-Kt4,  &c.    Or  13  . . ,  B x  B ; 
14  KtxB,  P-QR3,  to follow with Kt-K2. 

(8)  13  ..,  Kt-Q5;     14  BxBch,  QxB;      15  KtxP,  Q-B4;     16  Kt-Q3,  R-Qsq; 

17  B-R3,  R-Q2 ;  .  18  R-K5,  Q-Kt3 ;    19  Kt-B5,  B x  Kt ;    20  B x  B,  QKt-B4  (Neumann V.  Schallopp) ;    21  Q-Ili-{-.  {Hayidbuch.) 

(9)  Mr.  Fraser's Attack.    (See Diagram.) 

(Col.  18.) 

(Col.  19.) 

www i  Ai i'M iw^ 

■   m Mm 

•     «  4  m 

%m%      mm M  m^-. 

w  'W^.      P^'^^^       'MM A^  f  ^i II I ill i  mmWi  \ 

After White's  10th move. 

After Black's  13th move. 

il: 

(10)  10  ..,  K-Bsq;  11  P-Q5,  QKt-K2 ;  12  Kt-K2.  Kt.Kt3 ;  13  KKtlQi. 
(Wisker v.  Bird.) 

(11)  ll..,Q-B3;  12PxKt,  0-0-0;  13  Kt-QS,  Q-Kt3 ;  14PxPoh+. 

(12)  Or  13  P-K5  !  (W.  W.) 

(13)  Mr.  Mortimer's variation. 

(14)  Orl4P-Q5.    (Ranken.) 

Il5)   He may also play  16  P-K6,  or P-Q5. 

(16)  20  P-Q5  is in Black's favour.  White may play  20  QR-Qsq,  Kt x  P !  21R.K6, 
R-Ksq;  22  QR-Ksq  (if RxKtP,  K-B2),  RxR;  23  RxR,  &c.:  if  22  ..,  K.B2, 
23  B.Q2,  RxR?;    24  Kt-Kt5ch.   (Monck). 

(17)  16  . .,  K-Ktsq ;  17  P x B,  Q x  P  ;  18  Kt-KR4,  P-Kt4 ;  19  Kt-Kt6,  R-R2f , 
(Wormald). 

(18)  17Q-Kt6,Q.KB8q;  18  B-Ktd,  P-BS ;  19  KR-Ksqcb,  K^2-f. 

'94  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Ta3le  42.— the EVAN'S GAMBIT.    (Part I.) 

I P-K4,  P-K4;     2  Kt-KBS,  Kt-QBS;     8  3-34,   B.B4; 

4P-QKt4,   BxKtP;      5P-B3,  B-B4;      6  0-0,P.Q3; 

7  P-Q4,  PxP;     8  PxP,  B-Kt3.     (Diagram p.  87.) 

21  22  23  24  25 

9 
10 
11 
12 
18 
14 
15 

B-Kt2 

P-B8  B-Kt5              KFR4  KKt-K2  KFBS Kt-R4!   (1)     P-Q5       (2)     B-Q3  Kt-Kt5  P-Q5       (6) 

P.Kt3  Kt-K4              Kt-K2  P-Q4  Kt-K2     (7) 

R-Ksq B-Kt5cb Kt-Kt5  (3)    PxP BxKt K-Bsq K-Bsq P-KRS Et^Ri PxB Kt-R3  QKt-Q2  -f Q-R5  P-Q6  P.QR4    (8) 

K-Kt2  0-0  KtxB OO P-B4  P-K5  PxKt K-Rsq P-B4  B-KB4  Q-Q4  P-KB4    (9) 

KtxBPcb BxB Kt-QB3  Kt-Kt5 

PxKt KtxB  "    I^txB     (5)  P.KR3 

Q-R5  Kt-Kfi3  KtxQ Kt-R3 

Q-B3  Q-Q2  KtxQ PxP P-K5  QKt-Q2  KRxKt R-R3 

^^     Q^KtS  '                          FQ4  (4)    P-QB3  Kt-Kt3 

Q-Qsq KtxB     —  R-KKt3 

P-KR4  '  RPxKt  —  Q.R5 
R-K3 

17 
18 

P.R5 

(1)  Mayet v.  Hanstein.  If  10  P-K5,  QPxP;  11  BxKt,  KxB;  12  Q-KtS, 
R-Bsq;  13  PxP,  PxP;  14  KtxP,  KtxKt ;  15BxKt,  Q-K2;  16  Kt-Q2,  B-K3 
(G.  E.  R.) :  (if)  16  . . ,  Q X  B ;    17  QR-Ksq,  B x  Pch,  &c.  (W.  W.) 

(2)  If  10B.Kt5,  K-Bsq.  If  10  Q-Kt3,  Kt-R4 ;  11  BxPch,  K-Bsq;  12  Q-Q5, 
Kt.KB3;  13  Q-KKt6,  BxKt;  14  P-K5,  KxB;  15  PxB,  R-Ksq;  16  PxKt, 
QxP+. 

(3)  11  P-Q5  transposes into Col.  36.  If  11  Kt-B3,  O.-O i  12  Kt-K2,  P-Q4. 

(4)  17  P-Kt4,  P-Kt3 ;   18  Q.R3,  Kt.Kt2 ;   19  P-K6=. 

(5)  14  ..,  QxKt;  15  Q-R4ch,  P.B3;  16  QxKt,  B.R6;  17  P-Kt3,  BxR: 
18KxB,  KxP;    19B-R3ch4-. 

(6)  If  10  P.K5,  PxP;  11  B.R3,  B-K3I:  if  10  Q-B2,.0-0;  11  P.K5,  Kt-Ksq 
{H(lrldb^lch). 

(7)  10  . . ,  Kt-R4  transposes into Col.  30.  The continuation is Bird v.  Steiaita with the latter's correction of his  17th move. 

(8)  If  12  Kt-Q4,  P-KB4 :  if  12  Kt-R4,  Kt-Kt3. 

(9)  Undoubling the Pawn is Black's first object,  before moving the Knight. 

Table  43.— THE EVAN'S GAMBIT.    (Pabt I.) 

I 

^1  P.K4,   P-K 
4    P.QKt4,    B 
7  PQ4, 

10 

11 

It 

12 

18 
14 
15 
16 
17 

4;     2Kt.KB3,Kt.QB3;      3B-B xKtP;     5P-B3,    B-B4;      6    0- 

PxP;    8PxP,  B-KtS.    (Diagram P-Q5_ 

Kt-K4 

KtxKt PxKt B-R3       (1) 

B-Q5 
Kt-Q2 

BxR QxB  — 

27 

Q-B3 
PxKt QxR BxPcb  (2) 
K-Bsq     (3) 
BxKt RxB Kt-Kt5 
QxP Kt-QB3 

Q-B5 
Kt-Q5 

K-Ksq Q-R5ch P-Kt3 
QxRP  + 

28 

29 

Kt-R4 
P-K5 

Kt-K2(dia.)(4) 
KtQB3  (5)    P-K6 
B-KB4    (6) 
B-KKt5  (7) 

KtxB     (8) 

Q-Q2 

QxKt 

0-0 

KR-Ksq QR-Ksq PK6 

PxP PxP Q-B3       (9) 

PxP    (10) 
PxP 
0-0 

Kt-Kt5  (11) 
KtxB QQ3 

Kt-Kt3 

QxQKt P-Q4 

Q-K2 

P-KR3 
Kt-B7 

Q-Ksq or Q-B3-f 

4  ;  B  .  B  .4  ; 
0,  P-Q8; 
p.  87.) 

80 

B-Kt2   (12) 

Kt-KB3 

B-Q3 

B-KKt5(18) 

Kt-B3    (14) 

P-B3 

Kt-K2 

0-0 

Q-Q2((iia.) 

R-Bsq    (15) 

Q-Kt5 

BxKt PxB PxP KRsq Kt.B5 

W) 

(1)  Or  11  B-Kt2  foUowed by K-Rsq and P-B4. 

(2)  11  Q-Kt3,  Q.B3 ;  12  P-K5.  P x  KP  ;  13  R-Ksq,  PxP;  14  B.KKt6+  (Kolisct V.  Scnoumoff). 

(3)  If  11  . . ,  K X  B ;  12  Q-KtSch,  &c. 

(4)  10  . . ,  Kt X  B ;    11  Q-R4ch,  B-Q2 ;    12  Q x  Kt,  Kt-K2  ;    (if)  13  P-K6,  PxP; 
14PxP,B-B3;    15  Kt-Kt5,  0-0 ;    16  Q-B2,  Kt-Kt3 ;     17  P-KR4,  Q-B3-f. 

(5)  Or  11  B>Q3.     If  11  PxP,  PxP  1 ;     12  B.Q3,  0-0;     (if)  13  Q-B2,  P.KB4. 
(if)  13  Kt-Kt6,  P-KR3 :    (if)  13  B-Kt2,  B-KB4 .   13  B x  Pch is premature. 

II 

(6)   11  . . ,  Kt X  B  ;     12  Q-R4ch,  B.Q2 ; 
15  B-Kt2  (Garstaogen v.  Anderssenji. 

13  Q X  Kt,  0-0 ;    14  Kt-K4,  B.KKt5 ; 

•96 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

(7)  There are numerous methods of continuing the attack,  but this appears thd most difficult to defend. 

(8)  12. .,0-0;  13B-Q3,BxB;  14QxB,Q-Q2;  15P-K6,PxP;  16PxP» 
QxP;  17  QR-Ksq,  Q-B4;  18  (;kQ2,  Kt-Kt3;  19  Kt-Q5,  QR-Ksq  (or Kt-QB5)  + 
(Crosskill v.  Freeborough.) 

(9)  18Q.Kt3,  B-Q6;  19  QR-Qsq,  B.B5+. 

(10)  11  ..,0-0;  12  Kt.Kt5,  P-KR3;  13  KtxP,  Q-Ksq:  14  B-Q3-J-:  for if 
14  ..,  KtxP;  15KtxPch,  and if  14  ..,  B.Q5;  15  Q-Kt4,  BxR;  16  KtxPch, 
&c:  if  12  ..,  KtxB;  13  Q-R5,  P-KR3 ;  14  KtxP,  Q-Ksq;  15  KtxRPch. 
PxKt;  16  Q-Kt4ch,  Q-Kt3.  If  12  PxPch,  RxP;  13  Kt-Kt5,  KtxB;  14  Q-B2, 
Kt-K4;  15  QxRPch,  K-Bsq;  16  Q-RSch,  Kt-Ktsq ;  17  Kt-R7ch,  K-K2 ; 
18  B.KKt5ch,  Kt-B3:      (if)  18  Kt.QB3,  B-Q5-f. 

(11)  0rl3Q-B2,K:txB;    14QxKt,  P-Q4;    15  Q.KKt4,  Kt.KB4-i-. 

(12)  10  B-R3,  Kt-K2 ;    11  P-K5,  0-0,  &c. 

(13)  If  11  . .,  0-0 ;  12  Kt-B3  and the play may be continued on the same lines as Cols.  41-45  to White's advantage. 

(14)  As played by Anderssen.    Or  12  R-Ksq may be played. 

(15)  Another game runs  14  ..,  Kt.Q2;  15  Q-B4,  B-R4 ;  16  Kt-Kt3,  B-Kt3; 
17  QR-Qsq,  PxP;  18PxP,  Kt-B4;  19  Kt-B5,  KtxB and Anderssen playing White announced mate in four moves. 

(16)  17  . .,  Kt-Ksq!  (C.  E.  R.)  After  17  . .,  Kt.B5  ;  18  R-KKtsq,  Kt-Ksq and White mates in five moves.  

(Col.  28.) 

■  '^■^*'" " 

After Black's lOtU move. 

(Col.  30.) 

m mm.  ■  ■ 

■  Pi W^ 

^S^ 

m  ^  '&A After White's  14tb move. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT^S OPENING.  97- 

Table  44.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.      (Paet I.) 

1   P-K4,  P.K4;     2  Kt-KB3,   Kt*QB3;     8  B-B4,  B.B4; 

4  P-QKt4,    BxKtP;      5  P-B3,  B-B4;      6  0-0,   P-Q3; 

7  P-Q4,  PxP;    8   PxP,   B-Kt3.     (Diagram p.  87.) 

II 

9 
10 
11 
12 

31  32  33  34  35 

P-Q5 
QKt-K2 
P-K5  !    (1) 

K^R3  Kt-Kt3  PxP B-Kt5   (13) 

Kt-B3  P-K6       (4)  KtxP Q-R4ch B-Kt2  ? 

0-0  PxP Kt-KB8  (9)  B-Q2     (14)    Kt-R3   (17) 

Kt-K4     (2)     PxP B-KtSchqO)  Q-Kt3  PxP     (18) 

P3<P KKt-K2  (5)  P-B3     (11)  Kt-Kt3  QxP BxKt Kt-Kt5  PxP Kt-B3 (dia.)    BxP 

*       Px'B      ""     0-0     (dia.)  0-0  KtxP  (15)    R-KKtsq KfexP Kt-QB8  (6)  B:R3  KtxKt B-Kt2 

Kt-B4  Kt-K4  BxPch(12)  PxKt  0-0-0 

Kt-Kt4—         B-Kt3      (7)  K-Rsq P-Q6  Kt-B3 

K-Rsq— (3)     P-B3       (8)  Q-Kt3  Q-B3     (16)    B-R6 

Kt-R4  BxKt Kt-K4      +    Kt-Ksq P-Q4  QxB Q:Kt3  Kt-Kt6+ 

KtxB Kt-KB3  (1») 

^'^  ^xKi Kt:K5         ' 

B-R3  QKt-Q2 

1®  QKt-Kt3  B:QB4      " 

B-B2-f BxR+ 

19 

14 
15 
16 

(1)  If  10B.Kt2,Kt-KB3;  llBxKt.PxB;  12  Kt.Q4  (or see Col.  25),  P-KB4+. 

(2)  Orl2BxKt,  PxB;   13Q-Q2,  PxP;   14  QR-Ksq,  &c. 

(3)  Neumann v.  Steinitz.  The former,  continued  16  R-Ktsq,  having in view the sacrifice of the Rook,  to check with Q  at QRsq. 

(4)  If  11  Kt-Kt5,  KKt-K2.  If  11  B-Kt2,  P x P  ;  12BxP,  Kt-B3;  13  BxKt. 
QxB;  14  R-Ksq ch,  Kt-K2  I.  If  11  B-KKt5,  KKt-K2 ;  12P.K6,0-0;  13Kt-R4. 
Kt9<Kt;     14  BxKt,  PxP;      15PxP.  R-B5;     16  Q.R5,  P-KKt3,  &c. 

(5)  Orl2.,,Q-B3. 

08 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENINa, 

(6)  14'QR5,  P-KR3;  15  QxKtl KtxQ;  16  P-KTdia ch,  P-Q4 ;  17  PxQ 
(queens),  RxQ;  18  R-Qsq,  &c.  (Wormaia).  If  15  Kt-B7,  Q-Ksq;  16  P-KR4, 
threatening  17  BxRP,  PxB;  18  QxP to follow with P-R5,  &c.  :  or  16  B-Kt2, 
P.Q4;^    17BxQP,  Kt-B5;      18  Kt x  Pch,  or Q-K5,  &c.    (Rahken.) 

(7)  15  Q-R5,  P-KR3;  16  Kt-B7,  KtxKt}  17  PxKtch,  K-R2;  18  Kt-K4, 
Kt-B4 1 :  if  18  . . ,  P-B3  ? ;    19  Kt-Kt5ch.  20  Q x  Pch,  and  21  B-Kt2ch,  &c.    (Gossip.) 

(8)  Or  15  . . ,  P-KR3 ;  16  Kt-B7,  Kt x  Kt ;  17  P x  Ktch,  K.R2 :  or  16  KKt-K4, 
K-Rsq;    17  K-Rsq,  P-Q4  ;    18KtxP,  BxKP.    (Ranken.) 

(9)  11  . . ,  Kt-Kt3 ;    12  R-Ksq,  Kt x  Kt ;    13  R x  Ktch,  Kt-K2 ;    14  B,R3+. 

(10)  Orl2P.Q6+.    (O.E.R.) 

(11)  Or  12  . .,  K-Bsq to win the QP.  The players in this column are Morphy v. 
De Riviere. 

(12)  Better  14  . . ,  Q x  Q !  15  R x  Q,  KKt-Q4.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(13)  The Bishop should go to KB4.    If then  11  Qch,  Q-Q2,  &c. 

(14)  If now  11  . . ,  Q.Q2 ;  12  B-QKtS,  P.QB3 ;  13  P.K6,  P x  KP ;  14  Q x  B, 
VxB;     15  P X  P,  Q-B2 ;     16  Q x  P,  Kt.Kt3 ;      17  B.Kt2+ . 

(15)  If  13  . . ,  KKt-K2 ;  14  P-K6  and Kt-Kt5 + .  If  13  . . ,  Kt-R3 ;  14  B-KKt5. 
If  13  ..,  PxP;  14  P-Q6,  Q-fe3;  15  Kt.K4,  Q-B4;  16  Kt-Kt3  thence to R5. 
See diagram below. 

(16)  If  15  ..,  PxP;  16BxPch,  K-Bsq;  17BxKt,RxB;  18B-R3,B-B3; 
19  QR-Qsq,  &c. 

(17)  Or  11  . . ,  K-Bsq.    This column is from a'  game Harrwitz v.  Boden. 

(18)  Orl2B-Kt5ch.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(19)  17  Kt-B3.  Kt X  BP ;  18  Kt-Ksq,  B X  Pch ;  19  Kt x  B,  Q-Kt6 ;  and White resigns. 

(Col.  82.) 

W4  *  WM fM>      WM  * 

fk WM A  WM r^i^ftv'^rs.u^f^'^S'^^^.'^""^ 

s^m% 

After Black^s  18tb iaov«. 

(Col.  84.) 

r##B^fi 

.^^?^ 

,gi=?^ 

tiifiiBiilJ m^A, 

^1 

g  ^     '^"    fS  §  fM m  ^  ?.^^ 

After White's  18tb move. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

If It Table  45.~THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Part I.) 

I I  P-K4,  P-K4;      2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3;      3  B-B  4,  B-B  4  ; 
4  P-QKt4,    BxKtP;      5   P-B3.   B-B4;      6  0-0,   P-Q3; 

P-Q4,   PxP;      «PxP,B-Kt3;      9P-Q5,    Kt.R4; 
10  B-Kt2,  Kt-K2. 
36  87  38  39  40 

II  ^-Q^     (1) 

0-0         (2) 

Kt-B3  _______  

B-Kt5  P-QB3  P-KB4?  Kt-Kt3 

Kt-K2  Q-Q2  _____  Kt-KKt5  Kt-K2 

BxKt PxP P-KB4  Q-Ksq PJiB3 

PxB KtxP QR-Ksq Kt-K6  KKt.Q4 

Kt-Kt3    (3)     Kt-Kt3  PxKP BxKt R-B"2       (8) 

KtxB     (4)  KtxP PxB K-Rsq ! 

QxKt KtxP P-B5       (7)  P-QB4 

QR-Ktsq QKt-Kt5  Kt-Q5  Kt-K6 

^:Q^  P-KR3    (6)  Kt-Kt3  Qlii^ 

Q-B3?  Kt-K6  Q-Kt4-f P-B4 

P-B3  BxKt BxKt Kt-Q4  RxB PxB Kt-KB5+  Kt-KB5  R.QB2 

(5)  RxQP-h B-B3 

P-B5 
B-B2+ 

R-Qsq II 

(1)  If  11  BxP,  R-KKtsq;  12  B-Q4,  KtxB;  13  Q-R4ch,  Q-Q2;  U QxKt R  X Pch ;    15  K-Rsq,  Q-R6 ;     16  QKt-Q2,  Kt-Kt3 ;     17  R-KKtsq ,  Kt-R5  -f- . 

(2)  If  11  ..,P-KB3;   12Kt-R4. 

(3)  15  K-Rsq,  (if)  Q-115;  16  Kt-Kt3,  P-KB3 ;  17  Kt-B5,  Q-R6;  18  R-Bsq, 
Kt-R5  :  or  18  ..,  Kt-K4  or B5;  19  R-KKtsq  (Gattie).  If  15  P-B4,  Q-R5  ; 
16  Kt-Kt3,  P-B3,  &c. 

(4)  If  15  Kt-B4  I ,  Kt-K4  I. 

(5)  This Col.  is by Steinitz but White's play is questionable.  Mr.  Gattie also dissents from the conclusion in Black's favour,  and suggests  19  B-B2,  Kt-B3; 
20  Q-B4ch,  &c. 

(6)  me  ..,B-KB4;   l7BxR 

(7)  If  15  .  =,  R-B3  ;  16  Kt-Q5.     (C.  E.  R.) 

(3)  Zukertort v=  Schult^n,  H  14  ..,  P-QB4;  15  Kt-KB5,  BxKt;  16  PxB, 
Kt.K4;    17  KtB4,  thence to K6-I-. 

100  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  46.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Part I.) 

1  P.K4,  P.K4;  2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QBS;  8  B-B4,  B.B4 
4  P.QKt4,  BxKtP;  5P-B3,  B.B4;  6  0-0,  P-Q3 
7P-Q4,  PxP;  8PxP,  B-Kt3j  9P-Q5,  Kt-R4 
10  B.Kt2,  Kt-K2;  11B.Q3,  0-0;  12  Kt-B3,  Kt-Kt3 
13  Kt-K2,   P.QB4;     14  Q.Q2  (1),  P-BS.    (Diagram p.  101.) 

15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 

41                   42  48  44  45 

K-Rgq QB-Bsq B-B3 

B-B2  B-Q2  Kt-K4  B-B2 

QR-Bsq  (2)  QR-Bsq KtxKt  (9)    Kt-Kt3 

R-Ktsq P-QR3  BPxKt P-QR3 

Kt-Kt3  KKt-Ktsq Kt-Kt3  K-Rsq KtB5 

P-Kt4  P-Kt4  K-Bsq     (7)  Q-R5               P-Kt4 ! 

Kt-B5  P-B4  Kt-B5  P-B4               QR-Bsq(lO) 

P-B5  P-B5  BxKt R-B3-1-           Kt-Kt2  (11) 

B-Ktsq    (3)  B-Ktsq PxB P-Kt4 

P-Kt5  P-Kt5  Kt-K4  BxKt B-Q4  B-Q4  KtxKt  (8)  KtPxB(12) 

B-R3!  P-B6  QPxKt Kt-K4 

R-Ktsq Q-Qsq KR-Qgq KtxKt  — 

2^     P-B6       (4)  Kt-B5  R-tiB2  QPxKt— 

Kt-B3  B-K4   —  (dia.)(i3) 

22  B^it3  R-Q2-P-B5  (5) 

23  KKt-K4  (6) 

(1)  Orl4R-Bsq,  P-B3;    15  K-Bsq,  B-B2 ;    16  Kt-KtS  (if)  Kt-B5 ;    17  Q-Q2  and White has saved time. 

(2)  16  Kt-Ksq,  R-Ktsq;     17  Kt-Kt3,  P-Kt4 ;     18  Kt-B2,  P-Kt5;     ^9  Kt-KS.  k Kt-K4  I 

(3)  The continuation of this column is given in the Schachzeitung.    The Handhuch treats it as suggestive but open to question. 

If  19  B.K2,  Kt-Kt2 ;    20  KKt-Q4  (if  20  B-Q4,  B-Kt3),  B-Q2 ;    21  P-B4,  Kt-B4  + . 

If  19  B-K2,  P-EtS ;    20  B-Q4,  P-B6 ;    21  Q-Qsq.  Kt-KB5  (B-Kt3  ? ;    22  P-QR3) ; 
22P.Kt4,Q-E:sq;    23B.Q3,KtxB;    24QxKt,BxKt;    25-KtP x B,  Q-Kt4.+ , 

p THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENINrx 

101 

(4)  22  Q-K3,  Kt-QB5 ;  23  Q-Ksq,  Kt-B5  j  24  P-K.t4,  Kt-QKt7 ;  25  P-Kt5, 
QKt-Q6?;  26  PxP+.  Mr.  Monck proposes  25  ..,  P-KtS,  (if)  26  PxP,  RxP giving up the exchange. 

II II I 

(5)  23Bx.B,QxB;    24  Q-Ksq,  Q-K6 ;    25  P-B5,  KKt.K4+. 

(6)  24  Kt X  Kt,  BP X  Kt ;  25  B x  B,  Q x  B ;  and the Handbuch notes that after 
26  R-B3,  Kt-Q7 ;    27  R-R3,  Q-B7 ;    28  B-Q3,  B-Q2  White has no attack left. 

(7i Or  17  . . ,  B-Kt5 ;    18  Kt.B5,  P-BS ;    19  B-K2.    {Handbuch.) 

(8)  Or20BxKt. 

(9)  Neumann V.  Mortimer.  If  16  K-Rsq,  Kt x  B ;  17  Q x  KKt,  Q-Ksq ;  18Kt.R4, 
B-Qsq,  &c. 

(10)  If ISKtxQP,  P-Kt5+. 

(11)  18  . . ,  B X  Kt  ?,  19  P X  B,  Kt-K:4 ;  20  Kt x  Kt,  BP x  Kt ;  21  P-B4,  Kt-Kt2 ; 
22P-B6,RxP;  23PxP,PxP;  24RxR,QxR;  25  R-KBsq,  Q-Qsq;  26B-K4, 
Q-R5 ;    27  B.B5,  P-K5 ;    28  P-Q6,  B x  P ;    29  Q-Q5ch,  K-Rsq ;    30  B x  Pch,  K x  B ; 

31  Q X  Ktch and wins.     (Freeborough v.  Clarke.) 

Or  18  ..,  P-Xt5l  19  B-Rsq,  B-Kt3;  20  P-Kt4,  BxKt;  21  KtPxB,  Kt-K4; 
22KtxKt,  QPxKt;  23  K-Rsq,  KtiKt2 ;  24  R-KKtsq,  K-Rsq;  25  R-Kt3, 
Kt-Q3 ;    26  QR-KKtsq,  R.R2  and Black won. 

If  18  . . ,  P-B5 ;    19  B-Ktsq,  Kt-Kt2 ;    20  KKt-Q4,  with a  good position. 

(12)  20KPxB,  Kt-K4;  21  Kt x  Kt,  QP x  Kt. 

(13)  Continued  22  K-Rsq,  P-B5  ;  23  B-B2,  P-QR4 ;  24  R-KKtsq,  P-Kt6 ; 
25  B-Rsq,  Kt-B4;  26  Q-R6,  Q.Q2;  27  R-Kt3,  B.Q31;  28  QR-KKtsq,  R.B2; 
29  R.R3,  K-Bsq ;  30  Q x  RP.  If  25  Q.R6,  Q-Q2  ;  26  B-Q2,  B-Kt3 ;  27  R-Kt2. 
P-B6.  &c. 

(Cols.  41-45.) 

mi. 

rif i 

m m M^/im After Black's  14th move. 

(Col.  45.) 

After Black's  21st move. 

102 

THE KmG'S Rx^IGHT'S OPENING. 

SECTION XIV.^ 

THE EVANS GAMBIT.      Part IL 

1P-K4,   P-K4;    2  Kt-KB8,  Kt-QBa;    3B-B4,B.B4; 
4   P-QKt4,   BxKtP;     5  P-B3.   B.R4. 

THE variation of the Evans Gambit commencing,  as in the position above, 
with Black's move  6  ...,  B-R4  has:received much attention from experts, 
particularly in Germany.  The result of their labours is an accumulation' 
of analysis that has,  to some extent,  defeated its own object,  and left this division of the Evans as intricate as ever in some of its principal varia- 
tions. In the early days of this^pening the move  5  ...,  B-R4  was thought preferable to  5...,  B-B4,  for the simple reason that when placed on the latter square the Bishop was liable to attack by the advance of White's Queen's Pawn,  while if it was intended that he should afterwards retire tQ Kt  3  it made no difference. 

The objection to  5  ..-,  B-R4  was that White could continue by 
6;  0-0,  P-Q3  ;  7  P-Q4,  Px P  ;  8  Q-Kt3  without fear of Kt-QR4.  This is now known as Waller's Attack.  It was analysed by Mr.  G.  Waller of iDliWin,  in the Chess Plafjers'  Chronicle for  1848.  The ajialyeis i&  also given in Staunton's Chess Players*  Companion. 

To get rid of tliio attack the defence was Btrengthened by the sub- 
gtitution of an older form mentioned as best by Walker in the PhilidorwT* 
(1838) :— 6  0-0.  Kt-BS,  instead of -a...  PQ3,  or B-Kt3.   6  ...,  Kt-B3leid5 

THEl KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.  lOa to the Richardson Attack by  7  P-Q4,  0-0 ;  8  Kt x  P  (Cols.  31-40).  Mr.  P. 
Richardson of New York has the credit of introducing this hne of play, 
which brings about some extremely critical and beautiful situations.  It can be avoided by  7  ...,  Kt or PxP  (Cols.  21-23),  or7  ...,  P-Q3  (Col.  24), 
but analysis has shown that the attack may be met on its merits;  and that it ought to turn out to the advantage of the second player. 

,  After some fluctuations of opinion  >vith regard to the best way of treating the defence  6  ...,  Kt-KB3,  the conclusion has been generally accepted that it is better for White to play  6  P-Q4  than to Castle. 

6  P-Q4  was first suggested by Mr.  Stanley in the American Magazine  (1847) 
and further improved by Morphy  (1859)  after  6  ...,  PxP;  7  0-0, 
Kt-KB3,  by the continuation  8  B-R3  :  it completes the dividing line between the two main variations of the Evans Gambit.  After  6  P-Q4 
the play is altogether different While gives up three Pawns,  including the gambit Pawn,  in the continuation  6  ...,  PxP;  7  0-0,  PxP  (the 
*' ComprQmised Defence") ;  and obtains in return a  strong attack,  on Mr. 
Waller's principle,  by  8  Q-Kt3  (Cols.  43-60).  It is necessary to break the force of this attack,  otherwise White should win by the time gained,  and Black ajccordingly takes an early opportunity of playing P-QKt4,  thereby returning one of the Pawns he has in hand in order to free his Queen's Bishop and Queen's Rook.  This course was originally proposed and generally practised by Anderssen.  It was approved by Zukertort,  who enriched it with nutuerous analytical variations and suggestions  (see West- 
minster Papers,  1874,  also ihQ Chess Monthly).  In its advanced stages it i^flllg into exercise profound judgment of the value of position and the. 
force of various pieces acting in combination.  The researches of the most careful analysts have;  however,  freijuently proved unequal to the resources, 
of the attack in actual play. 

Another defence,  suggested by the Rev.  T.  C.  Sanders,  and analysed by Messrs.  Pierce and Ranken,  springs from the moves  6  0-0,  P-Q3 ; 

7  P-Q4,  B-Q2  (Cols.  11-15).  It avoids the mel^e of pieces which charac- 
tepses the two variations last named,  but substitutes other difficulties, 
and demands careful management to keep clear of disaster.  Mr.  Steinitz has more recently tried  6  0-0,  Q-B3  (Cols.  6-10) ;  but this variation has little to recommend it,  and is not generally considered sound. 

According to several eminent authorities the best way of treating the 
'pvans Gambit is to decline it.  This leads to an entirely different class of positions,  which have,  of late years,  received considerable attentioUr and the analysis has.  been enlarged in co.naequence. 

104  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  47,— THE EVANS GAMBIT.     (Pakt II. 

1   P-K4,    P.K4;      2  Kt-KB3.     Kt-QBS;      8  B-B4    B-B4; 

4  P.QKt4.    BxKtP;      5  P-B3,  B-R4.     (Diagram p.  102.> 

12                     3  4                     5 

ft Q-Kt3              0-0  

Q-K2       (1)     P-Q3       (2)  KKt-K2 

"    B-B3               P-Q4  Kt-Kt5 

P-Q3               PxPCdia.^.  105.)  P-Q4 

8 

10 
11 

18 

15 

18 

P-Q4  PxP Q-Kt3     (5)  PxP PxP Kt-B3?  (3)     Q-B3  Q-K2       (8)  KtxP 

00  P-K5  PK5  P-K5  P-Q4     (12) 

Kt-B3  PxP PxP PxKP  0-0 

P^5 Q-Kt3      (4)      R-Ksq     (6)    R-Ksq PxP Kt-K5  Q-K2  B-Q2       (7)    B-Q2  B-K3 

R-Ksq PxP+  B-KKt5  B-R3       (9)  Q-R5 

Kt-B4  Q-B4  Q-B3  P-KR3 

3xKt QxP KtxKP KtxB 

^^    PxB  *  R-Bsq!  0-0-0   (10)  PxKt P-K6  B-Q5  KtxP BxRP(13) 

P-B3  R-Ktsq PxP Kt-R4  RxPch KtxQR(ii) 

^^    P-Kt3  QxR KtxKt P-B4  BxPch B-Kt4 

0-0  K-Bsq B-Kt3 

P.B5  Q X  Rch Q-B2 

^^    P-KKt4  KtxQ KFR3 

Kt-B3  KtxQ KtxP  + 

^'7     B-Kt3  PxP P-QR4  B-Kt«  + 

(1)  6  . . ,  QB3 ;  7  P-Q4,  PxP;  8  0-0,  P-Q3 ;  9  P-K5,  transposing into Col.  3. 
The play in the Col.  is Kipping v.  Pindar.    Ultimately won by White. 

(2)  If  6  . . ,  B-Kt3 ;  7  P-Q4,  PxP;  8  P-K5,  P-Q4 ;  9  P x  P en pas.  (Ghulam Kassim),  PxP I 

(3)  If  8  . . ,  Q-K2 ;  9  P-Q5,  Kt-K4 ;  10  Kt x  Kt,  Q x  Kt ;  11  Q-R4ch,  B.Q2 ; 
12  Q X  KB,  QxR;  13  Kt-B3  and wins.  8  B-Kt3  reverts to the normal position. 
ip.  87.) 

(4)  If  10  B-R3,  B-K3. 

(5)  Waller's Attack.  After  7  . . ,  B-KKt5  ;  8  Q-Kt3,  (if)  Q-Q2 ;  9  B x  Pch,  Q x  B ; 

10  Q X  P,  &c.    Tschigorin played  8  Q-B4,  or  8  B.QKt5. 

^      (6)  10  B-KKt5,  Q B4 ;    .11  Kt x  KP  (Morphy v.  Kipping),  Q x  Kt ;     12  B x  Pch, 
K-Bsq+.    See diagram below. 

(7)  If  10   ..,  Kt-R3;      11  B-KKt5,  Q-B4;      12  Q-R34-.     If  10   ..,  B-Kt3; 

11  B-KKt5,  Q-B4 ;  12  Kt x  KP,  Kt x  Kt ;  13  P-B4  (or Q-Kt5ch I  C.  E.  R.),  P x  P disch;  14  K-Rsq,  B-Q5 ;  15  Kt x P,  K-Bsq ;  16  QR-Qsq,  KtxB;  17  QxKt, 
B-K3;    18  Q x  KB,  P.KB3 ;    19Kt-K4+. 

(8)8..,B-K3;    9BxB,PxB;    10PxP,Q-Q2;    11  P.Q5,  Kt-Qsq ;    12PxP, 
KtxP;    13QxP+. 

(9)  OrllB-Q5(Lange),  B-Kt3;    12BxKt,PxB;    13B.R3.Q-B3;    UPxP-f. 

(10)  Not advisable to take the Kt. 

(11)  If UKtxKR,  P-B7;   15  B-Kt2.  B x  R and wins. 

If 

<  12)  Or  9  Kt X  BP,  K x  Kt ;   10  Q-B3ch,  and either draws by perpetual cheeky or secures the best position. 

(13)   .The Handbuch gives   13  ,...,  R-B2;    14   R.Qsq+  :    if U  ..,  Q-Sd; 
i5  B-KKt5,  Q moves ;    16  B-Q3,  &c. 

(Cols.  2-4.) 

(Col.  8.) 

IPS BiiP m^m ■ ■ 

"'  ii  2  fc m 

m. 

m^M  »  m After Black's  7th move. 

Ml  *  fel     •  s Ml i 

y^4.        mm.        V/, 

WM-'V^WM 

^1  ^^p        »^ 

w  ^  ^*^      m. 

m. 

m^M 

% 

I fM$ 

,„„/„ 

^,6^^ 

After White's  10th move. 

106 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  48.- 

1 

P 

.K4.  P 

•K4; 

4 

P 

.QKt4, 

Bx: 

-THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Part H.) 

6 

10 

n 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

6 

P-^Q4 

KKt.K2 

B-KKt5  (1) 

Q.Q3  (dia.) 

P-Q5 

Kt-Qsq Q-R4 

B-Kt3     (.2) 

Kt-R3 

P-QB3 

QR'Qsq Q-Ktsq BxKt KxB   " 

P.Q6ch K-Bsq Q.Kt4 

P-KB3    (3) 

2  Kt.KB3.   Kt-QB3;     3  B.B4.  B.B4; 
KtP;      5  P.B3.    B.R4;      6  O-O,    Q-BS 

(Steinitz'   Defence). 

7 

Q.Kt3 

(4) 

0-0' 
Kt-R3  . 

(5) 

p.QRa BxPch 

(6) 

RxB Kt-B4 

Q-Kt8 
QKtxP 

(7) 
(8) 

KtxKt KtxKt Q.K3        "• 
KtxR KxKt BxKt QxQ PxQ 

8 

B-Kt3 
Q-R4 

PxP P.K5 

(10) 

Q-Kt3 
PxP KtxQP KtxKt BxKt BxPch 

(11) 

9 

Kt.R3 
B-KKt5 

Q-Q3 
P-Q5 

Kt-Qsq Q-.E4 

B-Kt3 
Kt-R3 

P-QB3  (12) 

B-K2 

B-B2 

Kt.B4 

Q-Bsq 
(dia.)  (18) 

10 

P-KR3  (14) 

Q-R4     (15) 

B-Kt3 

B-QKt5 

KKt-K2 

B-R3 

PxT P.K6 

Q-Kt3 
PxP 

<16> 

BxP      (9) 

{1)  8  Kt-KtS,  P.KR31;  9  KtxP.  R-Bsq;  10  KtxKP.  KtxKfc;  U.PxKt. 
QxP-l-. 

<2)  10  ..,  P-QKt3,  11  Kt-R3,  P-QR3;  12  B-Q3I,  BxP;  13  QR-Ktsq  (if 
13QR-Bsq,  Q-Kt5),B-Kt2;  14Kt-B4,  Q.B4!  16  B-K3,  P-QKt4 ;  l6BxQ,PxQ; 
17  P-Q6  and wins a  piece. 

(3)  Continued  16  B.Kt3,  or K-Rsq,  followed by Kt-R4  or Ksa,  and P-KB4. 
(C.  E.  R.) 

(4)  9  Q-B4,  B-Kt3 ;  10  Ki^R3,  PxP;  \l E:t-Kt5,  Q-Kt3 !  12  PxP,  P-QE3  : 
13  P-Q5,  Kt-K4;  14  KtyKt,  QxB;  15  Kt-KB3,  Q-R3 ;  16  B-Kt3,  0-0; 
17  QR-Bsq,  P.QB3 ;    18  QKt-Qi,  P-QB4  (Gunsberg v.  Steinitz). 

(6)  Threatening  11  Kt-Kt5,  Q-Kt3;    12BxKt,KxB;    ISKtxKP, 

(6)  OrllB-Q5.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(7)  If  12  ...  Q-K3;  13  P-Q5,  Q-Kt3  or  5;  14  PxKt,  KtxPl;  15  QKtxP^ 
KtxKt;    16KtxKt,  Q-K3;    17KtxR. 

(8)  If  13BxKt,P-Q31;    14  B-R4,  P-Kt4 ;    15  QKt-Q2,  K-Rsq,  &c.    (C.  E,  R.) 

(9)  Continued  18  QR-Bsq,  B x  P ;    19  B-Q8,  P-B3 ;    20  B.-B7+.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(10)  Or  8  ...  Kt-Qsq;  9  P-Q5,  reverting to Col.  6.    KB..,  Kt-QR4;  9  B-Q3+. 

(11)  Continued  12  ..,  QxB;  13  QxB,  Kt-K2;  14  B.R3,  0-0;  l5  Kt-B3^ 
R-Ksq;    16BxKt+. 

(12)  Or  11  ..,Q-KKt3l  (Steinitz). 

(13)  Continued  14  P-Q6f,  BxPI  (if  14  ..,  P.Kt4;  15  PxB,  Kt-Kt2;  16  Q-R3, 
&c.) ;  15  Kt-Kt6,  R-QKtsq ;  16  Q x  RP,  Kt-Ktsq I .  Steinitz,  against Tschigorio, 
played  16  . . ,  Kt-K3 ;    and against Gunsberg  16  . . ,  Kt-Kt5  ? 

(14)  Considered a  safe reply by Mr.  Steinitz. 

(15)  8  B-QKt5,  KKt-K2 ;  9  B.R3,  P x  P  (B-Kt3 1  Steinitz) ;  10  P x  P  | ;  Mr. 
Ranken suggests  8  P-Q5,  Kt-Qsq ;  9  Q-R4,  B.Kt3 ;  10  B-R3  with a.  good game. 
If  8  Q-Kt3,  KKt-K2 ;  9  P x  P,  Kt x  P ;  10  Kt x  Kt,  Q xKt ;  11  B x  Pch,  K-Qsq and Steinitz likes Black's game. 

(16)  Continued  12  . . ,  Kt-Q4 ;  13  R-Ksq I ,  Kt.B5  (QKt-K2 1  Steinitz) ;  14  P-Kt% 
Kt-R6ch ;  15  K-Kt2,  Q-Kt5 ;  16  QKt-Q2,  Kt-Kt4 ;  17  B-E:t2 1  Kt-K2  (17  . .,  0-0; 
18P.Q5+);    18B.K2,  Kt-K3(or»18  ..,Q-K3);    19  K-Rsq,  Q.B4 ;    20Kt.R4+. 

(Col.  6.) 

.t.sxi 

,iltl|,M«* 

^i:^ 

fm. 

w>m 

^ 

IB  §  m After Black's  8th move. 

(Col.  9.) 

mxm\m\m\ 

i     ''mm. 

«      HI i  ..,^.  tii  ..yj^^-^y 

% 

Trf^HTiit After Black's  13th mpve. 

108  THE KING'S KNIGHTS OPENING. 

Table  49.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Pabt n.) 

n 

1  P.K4,  P.K.4';    2  Kt-KBS,   Kt-QBS;    8  B.B4,  B-B4; 

4  P-QKt4.    BxKtP;      6  P-BS,   B.B4;     6  0-0.   P-Q3; 

7  P  •  Q  4  ,  B .  Q  2  (1). 

11                   12  18                   14  15 

^     PxP(dia.  p.  109)  Kt-Kt6 

^    FxT       ■  KFK3  ~ 

Q QQ5              Q-Kt8            P-Q5  P-B4 

^     Q-K2               Q-B3?  Q-K2              Kt-K2  (6)    PxQP B-R3               B-KKt5  B-R3               Kt-K6  (7)    P-K5 

Q-B3               Q-K3  Q-B3              PxKt  0^0       (IT) 

B-Kt5              Q-Kt5  Kt-Kt5    (5)j PxP P-K6 

B-Kt3              Q-Q3  Kt-R3             B-B3  BxKP(12) 

Kt-Q2     (2)     Q-Kt3 (3)  PR4    —        Q-R5ch BxB KKt-K2          Q-Kt3  B-Kt3  —       Kt-Kt3  Pxl Q-Kt3              R.Qsq BKKt5  KtxKP OU^^O B-Bsq     (4)  QBsq Q-B3 

KtB4  —        KtxP P-B4  (8)    KtxR 

14                _-.     __  __  ^^^^  ^^^j KtxP BxP  (9) 

1^                           Q-K2  P.Kt4    (10) 

10 
11 
12 
18 

16 

KtxR+ 

(1)  Suggested by the Rev.  T.  C.  Sanders ;  analysed by Messrs.  T.  W,  Pierce and Banken  (C P.  C,  1877-1878). 

(2)  U  12  B X  Kt,  B X  B ;  13  Q x  KPch,  Q x  Q ;  14  Kt x  Q,  B-Kt4 ;  15  B-Kaq, 
P-KB3;  16  Kt-B3,  0-0-0+  :  if  15  R-Qsq,  P-KB3;  16  Kt-B3,  B-K7;  17  R-Q2, 
BxKt;    18  P X B,  Kt-R3,  &c. 

(3)  Or  12  B-Q5,  B-Kt3 ;    13  R-Qsq,  &c. 

(4)  If  13  ..,B.KKt5;    14BxPch,QxB;    15QxP. 

(5)  If  11  R-Ks^,  R-Qsq,  &o. 

(6)  9  ..,  Kt-QKtsq is also a  safe defence. 

(7)  This ingenious attack is the invention of Mr.  Frasar. 

(8)  Mr.  Fraser played  14  B-Q5,  which should have been answered by B  x B,  and then Kt-B4. 

(9)  If  15RxP,  B.Kt3ch;    16  K-Rsq,  B-K6+. 

(10)  See diagram.     If  16  KBxP,  B-Kt3ch ;     17  K-Rsq,  BxB;     18  QxBch, 
P-B3;    19Q-B4,  Kt-Kt5+. 

If  16  B-Q3.  B.Kt3ch ;    17  K-Rsq,  0-0 +. 

If X6  B X  Kt,  P X  QB ;    17  B-Kt3,  Q-Qsq + . 

If  16  B-QKt3,  Q-Kt2;  17  BxKt  (if  17  B-Kt5,  B-Kt3ch ;  18  K-Rsq,  BxP; 
19Q-K2,  Kt-K4  +  ).B-Kt3ch;  18  K-Rsq,  BxP;  19  Q xPch,  B-B3;  20Q-K2, 
Kt-R5;  21B-R4,BxB;  22  B x  P  (if  22  Q-Kt4  or B4,  Kt x  P+ ;  if22Q-R5ch, 
Kt-Kt3;  23BxP,  B-B3),  B-B3;  23  Q-R5ch,  Kt-Kt3;  24  Q-Kt4  (if  24  Q-R3, 
Kt-R5),  R-KKtsq ;    25  B-B6,  Kt-K2 ;    26  Q-R5ch,  R-Kt3+.     (Ranien.) 

(11)  If  10..,PxKP;    llB.R3,&c. 

(12)  If  11   ..,  PxKP;      12  Q-Q3,  Kt-B4 ;      13  KtxKP:    or  12  ...  P-KKtS: 
13Q-R3,  K-Kt2;     14BxP-f. 

(13)  Tschigorin v.   Alapin continued  15  PxP,    KtxP;      16    B-Kt2,    B-KtS ; 

17  K-Rsq,  KKt-B4  ;     18  Q-Q3,  Kt-K7  ;     19  B x  Q,  Kt  (B4)  Kt6ch  ;    and Black won. 
The Field suggests  15  Q-Kt3ch,  K-Rsq;      16  QxP,  Kt-Qsq ;      17  Q-Kt6,  B-KtS; 

18  Q.Q3,  P x  P dis ch ;    19  B-K3,  P.B7.+ . 

(Cols.  11-15.) 

iSssa^ 

wm^m 

'm 

^^..,..'".1^1 mm, 

mim After Black's  7tb move. 

(Col.  14.) 

1^1 

^  mm',  ^  mm^  ^^  mm,       ^, 
If WM WM       '^f i 

m fM.    ■    ill i 

^m^ 

m^fmx l^f'4.  'WM^^^'m^^  m M 

i-fSl 

^•*^^^^«Yp r^'^ 

After Black's  15th move. 

110  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  60.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Pakt H.) 

1  P.K4,    P.K4;      2  Kt-KB8.   Kt-QBS;      ^  B-B4,   B-B4; 

4  P.QKt4,   B X  KtP;     0  P-B8,   B.E4;     6  0-0,    Kt-B8. 

16  17  18  19  20-Kt-Kt5  B-R3 

00  FQ3 

b P-B4  P.Q4 

P-Q4  !  0:0         Uj PxQP PxP KtxP KKtxP B-R3       (1)  Q-B2       (5) 

KtxKBP Kt^Bi RxKt     (2)  KtxBP BxKt QxKt RxKt YxB R-Bsq BxRch Q-Kt3  QKt-Q2 

B-Kt3ch KxB Q-Ksq R-Ktsq K-Rsq PQ4  P-Kt8  BxRch QR.Qsq Kt-R4  Kt-R4  B-Kt3ch(8)    QxB q:^ 

,.     BxR BxR P-Q4  QxQch KR-Ksq 

"     KodS KtlTB KF^^P KxQ 

9 
10 
11 
12 
18 

16 
16 

18 
19 

--  _   ,-  P.QKt4 

B-R3  B-B5  BPxKt P-Kt3  B-Q3 

B-KSrh BxB BxPch B-KtS&h p,KR3+ 

PxB K-Rsq P-Q4 

B^KS Q-Q4ch B-R6 

Q-Bsq Q-B3  R-B2 

*'  ^xQ QxQch KtxP RxQ RxQ BPxKt QR-Q8q+        B-Kt6  BxP R-Bsq PxKt B-K7  BxQR Kt-Q2  PxPch BxQR+  K-K3-f 

(1)  Mr.  Fraser suggests,  as possibly a  little better for White,  either  10  Q-R6 
foDbwed by  11  B-R3;     or  10  PxP,  (if)  KtxP;     11  Q-R5;     or if  10  ..,QxKt;  j 

11  BxKt.  • 

(2)  11  P-R4,  P.KR3:     12  KtxP,  RxKt,'     13  BxRch,  KxB;     14  P-KtS, 
B-Kt3ch ;    15  P-Q4,  Kt x  P  ;    16  KtP x  Kt,  Kt-BT dis ch+ . 

(3)  Mr.  Wayte's correction of the Mandbuch,  continued on move  19  by Mr. 
Ranken. 

(4)  8  ..,  B-Kt3;    9  PxKP.  PxP;     10  Q-Kt3,  KtxKP;     11  BxPch,  K-Q2; 

12  Q mates.    (Bird v.  Wisker.)    Compare this Col.  with No.  23. 

(6)  IilO.B.Q6,  KtxBF.    IllO Q.K2,  Kt.B4.    niOPxP,KtxQP. 

h THE KING'S Kl^IQHT'S OPENING.  Ill Table  61.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Pabt U.) 

10 
11 
12 
18 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 

K4,  P.K4;    2  Kt-KBS,  Kt.QBS;    8B-B4,  3-34; 

P.QKt4,   BxJStP;  5  P-B8,  B.R4;     6  0-0,  Kt-BS. 

21                    22  28                   24                   25 

P Q4  

KtxKP PxP P-Q3  0-0             i R-Ksq     (1)  B-R3t Q-R4  PxP     (15) 

KtxQBP(2)  P-Q4  P-Q3     (11)  PxP KKtxP KtxKt   (8)  RxKt P-K5  P-K5  B-Q3     (16) 

BxKt PxR  (7)    P-Q4     (12)  Kt-KKt5  P-Q4 1 

Q^Kt3  Kt-Kt5  B-Kt5  BPxP Q-B2 

BxKR B.K3  (8)    Kt-K5  B-Q2  B-B4 ! 

BxPch P-Q5  PxP     (13)  Q-R3  Kt-Q4 

K-Bsq B-Kt3  (9)    B-Q2  B-Kt3  B-KKt3  I B-Kt5  B-Kt3  Q-Kt8  B-KKt5  P-KB4 

KtxP P-K6  P-QR3  P-B3  Q-Q2 

Q-K3       (4)     PxB     (10)    B-Q3  PxQP B-K8 

Kt34!  PxPch B-Bsq PxP P-QR3  (17) 

Q-R3ch K-Bsq R-Bsq R-Ksqch KtxKt Kt.K2     (5)     QxQch B-Kt8  Kt.K2  PxKt KtxP BxQ        ^    RxKt B-B4  P-B4 

F^S P-B8+  PxR B.B2  B.Kt8 

Q-KB8    (6)  Q-B2  Kt-B8  P-QB5 

'  B-Kt2  K-Bsq    (14)  B-R2 

QKt-Q2  RxKt B-Q4   — 

^txKt QxR  — 

QxKt Kt-Q5  4- 

P-R3 

QR-Ksq-f 

(1)  Or  8  P-Q5  (E.  P.),  KtxQBP?  (Kt-K2l);  9  KtxKt,  BxKt;  10  PxKt, 
BxR:  11  B-KKt5,  P-B3 ;  12  QxB,  (if)  PxB  ;  13  Q x  Pch,  K-Bsq ;  14  Q-Q5, 
Q-B3;  ISPxKtP:  orlS..,  Q-K2;  UQxBP,  Q-B3;  15  R-Ksqch,  K-Bsq; 
16  P x  QP or KtP.    (Monck.) 

Or  8  PxP,  KtxQBP;  9  KtxKt  (or Q-Kt3,  or BxPch.  Monck),  Bx^t; 
Q.Kt^,  &o, 

If8KtxP,P-Q4  (KtxKt!):    9  KtxKt,  PxKt;    10Q.B4+; 

112  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

(2)  If  8  . . ,  Kt-Q3 ;  9  B-KKt5,  P.B3 ;  lOPxP.PxB;  HPx Ktch,  K-Bsq ; 
12  Q-Q5,  Q.B3 ;    13  Kt x  P and wins. 

(3)  9  Q-Kt3,  KtxKt;  10  BxPch,  K-Bsq;  11  B-Kt5.  KtxP:  12  Q-K3, 
KtxKtch;    13PxKt,  B-Q7+.    (Monck.) 

(4)  If  13  Q-RSch,  B-Kt5,  foUowed by  14  P-B4+. 

(6)  Mr.  Ranken suggests here  14  . .,  B-Kt5,  as in Note  4.  Mr.  Monck continues 
15  QxBch,  P.B4  !  16  Q-Kt4,  J(t-R3+. 

(6)  Cook's Synopsis works out this important Col.  to White's advantage by 
16..,BxPch;  17KxB,  B-B4;  18B-K6,  PxKt;  19  B x  B,  Q-Q5ch ;  20  K-Kt3, 
K-Ksq;  21R-Qsq,  QxR;  22  QxQ,  KtxBch;  23  K-Kt4,  P-KKtS;  24  Q-Q5  +  . 
Mr.  Ranken notes that the win for White is inconclusive,  for  23  ..,  Kt-Q3  or  5  is better than P-KKt3 :    if  23  . . ,  Kt.Q3 ;    24  Q-Q5,  K-Q2 ;    25  Q x  KP,  QR-Ksq,  &c. 

(7)  If  9  ..,  PxB;  10  KtxP.  0-0;  11  Q-R5  (or KtxKt first),  KtxKt; 
12R-R4  +  . 

(8)  10  ..,  0-0;  11  Q-R5,  P-KR3;  12  KtxP,  RxKt;  13  BxRch,  K-Bsq; 
14  B-R3ch,  Kt-K2 ;    15  B-Kt3  and wins— a frequent variation. 

(9)  11  ..,Q-Q2;   12  Q-Q2,  0-0-0 ;    13PxB-h. 

(10)  0rl3KtxR,  PxKt;  14  PxKt.  PxPch;  15  K-Bsq,  QxQch;  16  BxQ, 
FxP;    17  B-B3, 0-0-0+ .    (C.  E.  R.) 

(11)  If8..,PrQ4;    9  Px P.  KtxP;    10Q-Kt3+. 

(12)  If9..,PxP;   10Q-Kt3,&c.     If  9  ..,  Kt-K5;   10  P x  P  (Q6),  Kt x  P  (Q3) ; 

11  R-Ksqch  +  .     If  9  ...  Kt-KKt6;     10  PxP  (Q6),  BPxP;     11    KtxP,   0-0; 

12  KtxKt,  PxKt;    ISQBxP,  R-Ksq;    14Q-B3+:    or White may play  11  R-Ksqch, 
Kt-K2;    12B-Kt5ch,£-BeqJ for if  12  . . .  B-Q2 ;    13BxQP+. 

(13)  Morphy v.  Greenaway,  transposing  6th and  7th moves.  A game of. Mackenzie's at the odds of Queen's Book is continued:— 11  KtxP,  B-Q2;  12  Kt-Kt3,  B-Kt3; 
l3QxP,  KtxKBP;  14  Kt-B5,  Kt-K2;  15  KtxB,  Kt-R6douch;  16  K-Rsq,  KtxQ ; 
17  Kt-B6  mate-  After  11  PxPaa inthe Col.  if  11..,  Q-02  (instead of B-Q?); 
12  Q-R4,  &c 

(14)  0rl6B.B3!    (C.  E.  R.) 

(15»  The Column is Mr.  W.  T.  Pierce's analysis given in the Huddersfield College Magazine,  Vol,  Vi..  p.  Wl.  Oxford  ▼.  Cambridge  (1849)  played  8  B-B3,  P-Q3; 
^PxP,  KKtxP;    10  Q-B2,  which transposes into column  20. 

(16)  If  9  R-Ksq,  P-Q4 ;    10  P x  P en pas,  Kt x  QP ;    11  B-KKtS,  Q-Q2  (Gowip). 

(17)  Or  13  . .,  B-Kt3 1    (C.  B.  B.) 

k THE KINO'S KNIGHrS OPENING.  US Table?  52.  -THE EVANS GAMBIT.     (Pabt II.) 

1PK4.P.K4:     2KtKB3.Kt-QB3;     8BB4,B.B4; 

i4   P QKt4.   B X  KtP;      6   PB3,   B.R4;      6   0  •  0 ,    Kt  •  B  8  ; 
^  7   P-Q4,  00. 

I  26  21  28  29  SO 

'        PxP BKKtS Q-B2 

""     KKtxP P-KK3    (4)    FQB?  Q-K2 ! 

Q B2       (1)  BQ5               B R4               PxP PxP (6) 

PQ4  "      Kt-B4!    (2)     P Q3               QKtxP QKtxP RQsq BR3                QQ3               KtxKt KtxKt 

*"     B K3  B-KtS!    (3)     BKt3              FxKi QxKt BK3  QKt-Q2           BR3  BQ3 

"     PB4  P-KKt4           R-Ksq KtKt5 

BxQP B-Kt3 R-Qsq PKt3 

^^     BxB SrKR4          KtQ2  BKt3 

P;B4 QKt3  KtR3 

Kt Kt5  Q-B3  P.Q4 

Q Ki2  RQ3  BKB4    (6) 

PB5  QKKtS Q-R4 

B Bsq QR4  P.R4 

KtxBP B-Kt3  P.KR3 

KxKt RB3-f KKt2 

B Kt3ch P-Kt4 

KKsq PB3 

BxKt PxB RxQ PxKt 

*®     QRxR+  QxKtP  (7) 

13 
14 
15 
16 
17 

(1)  II  9  Q.Q6,  KtxQBP;  10  Q.Q3.  P-Q4;  11  B-Kt3.  Kt><Kt;  12  RxKt. 
Kt.K2+      If  9  B-R3.  PQ3  rims into Col   20. 

(2)  If9  ...BxP.  lOBxRt,  BxR.  llBxPch.  KxB;  12  Kt-Kt5,  K-Kt3: 
13Q.Kt4  +  .  If  9  ,  KtxQBP,  10  Ktx Kt,  Bx Kt ;  11  Kt-Kt5,  KtxP;  12Q.B2I Mr Monck's correction  :  if  12  Q-R6,  PKR3  ;  13  PB4.  Q.B3  (Buddea);  14  Px Kt. 
B-Q5ch.  &c. 

(3)  If  10  ..,P.Q3;     11  BxQKt,  PxB(MoDck).     12BxKt.PxB;     13Q-R4,&c. 

(4)  Mr Potter gives  8  .  .  PQ3.  9  PQ5,  Kt-Ktsq or K2.  10  BxKt,  PxB; 
11  Kt-R4,  KRsq  .     12  P-B4,  &c.    The Col is by Mr.  Ranken. 

II 

(6)  Or9B.R3I    (Wayte.) 

(6)  Orl4K.Rt2l    (0.  E.  R.) 

(7)  19RxP,  Q.R6ch;    20  K-B3,  P.KB4-|.. 

114  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  53.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.     (Paet II.) 

1   P.K4.    P.K4;      2  Kt'-KB3,    Kt^QB3;      3  B-B4    B-B4; 

4  P^QKt4,    BxKtP;      5  P-B3.    B-R4;      6  0-0,   Kt-B  8  ; 

7P-Q4,  0-0;    8KtxP.    (Richardson's Attack.) 

81  82  83  84  85 

8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
18 
14 
15 
16 

KtxKt?  KtxKP PxKt B-Q5  B.R3  Q-R5 

KtxP KtxKt   (3)  P-Q3  P-Q4 ! 

Q-Q5  BxKt KtxKt KtxBP BxP Kt.Kt3    (4)  PxKt RxKt KtxB Q-R5  Q-R4  BxP KtxKt B-Kt3     (5)  BxP Kt.Q3 

Q-B3! B-Kt5  KtxB BxRch  (8) 

Kt-R5  P-Q4  Q-Ksq KtxKt KtxB+ 

Q-KKt3  'PxVenpas.    Kt-Q2 Q x.BP P-Q4!     (1)     Kt-R5      (2)    Q-K3  R-Ktsq B-KR6  B-R3  P-KB4     (6)  BxPeh P-KKt3  PxP P-KB4  KxB BxR QR-Qsq+       P-KKt4  —  QxKt  — 
PxB                                             (7)—  — 

B-R6+ 

B-B4 

(1)  From the Schachzeitung.  Or  13  . . ,  K-Ksq ;  14  B-KKt5,  Q-Ksq ;  15  KR-Ksq, 
Kt-Kt3;  16B-B6,R-KKtsq;  17B-Q3,PxB;  18PxP,  RxQ  (if Q-Bsq;  19  Q-R4, 
R-Kt3  [if P-KR3,  20  R-K8];  20  BxR,  PxB;  21  R-K7  and wins)  19  RxQch, 
R-KKtsq;  20  QR-Ksq,  and mates in two moves.  The Col.  leaves White with a  very slight advantage. 

(2)  13  ..,  Q-B3;    14QxQ,PxQ;    15R.Ksq,PxP;    16B-Kt2+. 

(3)  Or  9  . . ,  Kt-B3.  (W.  W.)    If  9  . . ,  Kt or B  x QBP,  then  10  Kt x  BP. 

(4)  If  10  . . ,  Kt-B3 ;    11  P-Q5,  Kt-K2 ;    12  P.Q6,  PxP;     13  B-R3+ . 

(5)  If  11  . . ,  P-QB3 ;    12  B.R3,  R-Ksq ;    13  B.B2,  P-Q4 ;    a4  P.E:B4  +  • 

(6)  Or  14  Q-B3  (C.  E.  R.)  The following move in the column.  15  P-KKt4  is Mr. 
Fraser's suggestion  :    if  15  B-Q3,  Q-K6ch  +  .    (Balson.) 

(7)  If  15  ..,  KtxP;    16RxKt,PxB;    ITRxRch.KxR;    18QxP,QxPch 
19  K-  Rsq and wins.    (Dr.  E.  R.  Lewis,  Indianapolis.) 

(8)  If  12  B X  Kt,  B-B4  I Tills column is giveo by Mr.  Wayte in B.  C.  illf. 

ir Table  54.--THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Part H.) 

1P-K4.P.K4;      2Kt-KB3,Kt-QB3;      3B-B4,    B-B4; 
4   P-QKt4,   BxKtP;      5   P-B3,   B-R4;      6   0-0,    Kt-B3; 
7  P-Q  4,   .0-0  ;     8  Kt x  P,    Kt x  K P  ;  *  9  Kt x  B P,    R x  Kt ; 
10  B xRch,    K X  B;     11   P-Q5. 
36  37  88  39  40 

12 
13 
14 

15 
16 
17 
IS Kt-K4     (1)  Kt.K2 

Q-Q4  QR4       (6)  Q-R4       (Q) 

Q^  BxP BxP RKsq     (2)     KtxB KtxB Kt-Kt5  KtxKt KtxKt QxKt     (3)     Q-B2  Q-Kt3  <i-Kt3     (9) 

QxRPch KtxQP Kt-K7ch KKtxQP QKt>^P K-Bsq Q-K4  K-Rsq B-Kt5  B-Q2 

K^B3  P-B3  KtxB P-B3  Kt-K7cli Q-B3       (4)     QxQKt QRxKt KR-Ksq !         K-Rsq P.QKt3+        P-Q3  P^Q3  K-Kt8!(10)    P^B3 

(5)     QKt3  Q-B2  Q-KKt3  Q-B3ch Q-B3    +        P.KR3  K-B2 

QxPch Q-R4 

QxQ P-KR3 

RxQch BxKt 

^^  K-Ba KtxB KR-QBsq R-K3 

20 

B-B4       (7) 

(1)  Introduced by Mr.  J.  A.  Douglas,  of New York.  If  11  ..,  KtxQBP; 
12  Q-R5ch,  K-Ktsq  ;  13  P x  Kt  +  •  (C.  E.  R.)  If  11  . . ,  Kt-Ktsq ;  12  P.Q6,  P x  P 
(or P-B3) ;  13  R-Ksq,  BxP;  14  R x  Kt,  B x  R ;  15  Q-R5ch,  K-Bsq ;  16  B-KtS, 
B-B3;    17BxB,  PxB;     18Q-R6ch+. 

(2)  If  13  QxQKt,  P-Q3;  14  Q-B4ch,  QxQ;  15  BxQ,  BxP;  16  KtxB. 
KtxKt. 

(3)  14  RxKt,  QxRPch;  15  K-Bsq,  Q-RSch  ;  16  K.K2,  Kt.B3  +  .  If 
14  P-KR3,  QKtxBP or B-Kt3  +  . 

(4)  If  16  Q-K7ch,  K.Kt3 ;    17  R.K3,  P-Q3  ;    18  R-Kt3ch,  B.KKt5+. 

(5)  Nash V.  Ranken.  (B.  C.  M.,  1882,  p.  369.)  If  16  . . ,  P-Q3 ;  17  B-B4,  Q.R5 ! 
(Gattie). 

(6)  White may also recover the piece,  though less advantageously,  by  12  Q-K2. 
If  12  QR5ch,  Kt-Kt3  ;     13  P-Q6,  P-B3. 

(7)  21  RxQKtP,  Kt-Q6;  22  KR.B7,  P-Kt3;  23  RxP,  RxR;  24  RxR, 
Kt X  Pch,  &c. 

(8)  If  12  Q-R5ch,  K-Ktsq ;    13  P-Q6,  P x  P-|- . 

(9)  If  14  Q.QB4,  QKtxP;  15  B-Q2,  P.QKt4 ;  16  Q-KtS,  Q-R6 1  ITBxKt, 
Q.QB5-f-. 

(10)  If  16  . . »  K-Bsq ;    17  R x  Kt.  Kt x  R ;    18  R-Ks^  &o. 

116  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  65— THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Part II.) 

1P-K4,  P.K4;    2Kt.KB3,  Kt-QBS;    3B-B4,B-B4;    4  P- 
QKt4,BxKtP;    5P.B3,B-R4;    6  P-Q4,  PxP  (1) ;    7  0-0. 

41  42  43  44  45 

10 
11 
12 

P-Q6?  (2)     BxP PxP Q>Kt3  KtxB Q>Kt3     (8) 

Q.B3!  PxKt Q-K2 

R-Ksq  (3)     Q-Kt3  (4)    KtxP     (9)  

P-Q3  Q-B3  (5)     Q-Kt5  BxKt P-K5  P-K5  BxPch QxB BxP KtxB PxKt Q-Kt3 

(4) 

Q-B3 
P-K5 

(5) 

KtxP KtxKt 

(6) 
(7) 

QxKt B  X Pch K-Bsq B.R3ch  + 

PxP KtxP      (6)  K-Qsq Kt-B8   (10) 

B-KKt5  KtxKt   (7)  B-Kt5ch B-R3 ^ 

Q.Q3  QxKt KKt-K2  Kt-B3  P-Q3 

BxPch BxPch Kt-Q5  Kt-Q5  P-K5 

K-Bsq K-Bsq QxQ QxQ Kt-K5 

QKt-Q2  B>R3ch+        PxQ PxQ Q-Kt2 

^^     B-KTS B-Kt3  P-KR3  QKtxP Kt-B4  KR-Bsq B.R4  KtxKt 

^^     B:K3  P-KR3  R-Bsq QxKt BxB RxKt B-Kt6  KR-Ksq+ 

15 
U 
17 

QxB PxB P-Q3 

KKtxP-f KtxB P-K5 

BPxKt?         PxP RxKtP+       KR.Qsq+ 

(1)  6  ..,P.Q3';    7PxP,PxPl   8  Q-Kt3,  &c. 

(2)  If  7  . . ,  Kt-B3 ;    8  B-B3*,  reverting to column  23. 

(3)  Or9P-K5,  (if)KtxP;  10  K-Ksq  :    i£9..,Q-Kt3;    10  B-Qsq.    (C.  E.  E.) 

(4)  Or  9  B.B3,  P.Q3  ;  10  Q-KtS,  or P.K5. 

(6)  If9..,Q.K2;   10B.B3,  Q-B3;    11  P.K5,  Q-Kt3 ;    12  Kt-Kt5. 

(6)  10  . . ,  Q.Kt3 ;    11  Q x  P transposes into column  48. 

(7)  Or  11  R-Ksq,  P-Q3 ;    12  Kt x  Kt,  P x  Kt ;    13  Q-Kt5cb,  P.B3 ;    14  R x  Pch. 
Kt.K2 ;    15  Q.B5,  &c.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(8)  li  8  P.K5,  KKt-K2  ;    9  Kt-Kt5  or Q-Kt3  turns out to Black's advantage. 

(9)  If  9  B-KKtS,  Q.Kt5;    10  BxPch,  K-Bsq,  &c.    (Wayte.) 

(10)   10  ..,  P-B3  ;     11  B.Q5,  Q-Kt5  ;     12  Q.B2,  KKt.K2  ;     13  R-Ktsq,  Kt-QJ 
(Hirscbfeld v.  Zukertort):    or  11  B.B3,  P.Q3;    12  B.Q5+. 

THE KING'S KNIGHTS OPENING.  117^ 

It Table  56.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.    (Pabt H.) 

P.K4,  P.K4;     2Kt-KB3,   Kt-QBS;      8B-B4,   B-B4; 
4  p.QKt4,    BxKtP;     5   P-B3,    B.R4;     6   P-Q4,    PxP; 

7  0-0,    PxP. 
46  47  48  49  00 

Q-Kt3 

Q-B3 

B-KKt5  P-K5 

"^    0103  KtxP Q-Kt3 

in KtxP R-Ksq KtxP 

*"    BxKt P-Q3  BxKt KKt.K2  (4)    (dia.  p.118) 

QxB Q-R4cb QxB Kt-K2                               , 

^^     FBS  (T)     K-Bsq KKt.K2  P-Kt4              0-0? 

B-B4  KtxKt R-Ksq!    (2)    BQ3       (.5)    B-Q3 

P.Q3+  P-B7  0-0  Q-K3               Q-K3       (9) 

Kt-Kt6cb+     B-Q3  Q-Kt2  BxPph 

12 

^^  '     P-B4       (3)    Kt-Kt3  K-Rsq 

14 

15 

B-QB4ch Kt-B4  Q-R4 

K-Rsq KtxKt P-Q3 

B.Kt2  BxKt Kt-B4    (10) 

P-Q4  P-KR3    (6)    Q-Q2 

Vxl^enpas.    QR-Bsq  (7)    P>K6 
^®  Px*P P-R3  PxP 

17 

QR-Qsq+       KR-Q3q  (8)    Kt-Kt5 

(3)  P-K4     (11) 

(1)  If  11  , .,  Kt-B3  (Zukertort v.  Steinitz) ;  12  P-K5,  Kt-K5 ;  13  Q-KS,  with Ik good position. 

(2)  Or  12  B-R3,  0-0 ;    13  QR-Qsq foUowed by KR-Ksq. 

(3)  17  ..,  P-Q4;  18  BxP,  KtxB;  19  RxKt,  R-KKtsq;  20R-Q6,&c:  if on move  13  . . ,  Q-R4 ;    14  R-K4,  Kt-Kt3 ;    15  P-Kt4,  &c.    (Rosenthal.) 

(4)  IflO  :.,P.QKt4;  11  KtxP,  R-Ktsq;  12  Q.K3,  P-QR3 ;  13  Kt.Q6ch:  or 
12  . . ,  Kt.K2 ;    13  Q-K2,  Q-R4  ;     14  Kt.Q6ch,  &c. 

(5)  If  12  B or Q  X P,  R-Ktsq -h. 

(6)  15  . . ,  P.QR3 ;  16  QR-Bsq,  B.Kt2 ;  17  KR-Qsq,  B-Kt3 ;  18  B-K4,  Kt.R4 ; 
19  Kt-Kt5,  Q-K2 ;  20  B x  B,  Kt x  B ;  21  Q-K2,  and keeps the attack.  Or  16-Kt-Kt5, 
Q-K2  ;    17  P-K6,  P-B3  ;     18  Kt x  RP,  P-Q3 ;     19  Q-Bsq,  &c.     {Handbuch.) 

(7)  Orl6BxKtP,  R.QKtsq;.    17  Q-K2.     (Monck.) 

(8)  In lieu of  17  . .,  B.Kt2  ;  18  Q-Ktsq,  &c.  Mr.  Ranken suggests  17  . .,  0-0; 
if  18  Q-Ktsq  (to prevent B-Kt2),  R-Qsq-f  :  if  18  B-Ktsq,  R-K or Qsq ;  (if)  19  Q.B2, 
P-Kt3 :  if  18  Kt-Q4,  Kt x  Kt ;  19  Q x  Kt,  B-Kt2 ;  20  B-Ktsq,  KR-Qsq  + .  SgJvioli gives  16  . . ,  R-QKtsq ;    17  B-Ktsq,  0-0 ;    18  Kt-R4,  Q-Kt5  ;    19  P-Kt3,  &o. 

(9)  12  . . ,  Q-Kt5 ;    13  Kt.B4,  P-Q4 ;    14  P.K6 :    or  14  B-K3.    (Ranken.) 

(10)  If  15  Q-KR4,  Q-Kt5. 

(11)  18QKt-K6,  R.B3;    19  Q.im4,  R.R3 ;    20Kfc-B7cb+. 

118 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  57.— THE EVANS GAMBIT.     (Part II.) 

1  P.K4,   P-K4;     2Kt-KB3,   Kt-Q B  3  ;     3B-B4,B.B4; 

4  P-QKt4,    BxKtP;      5P-B3,    B.R4;      6P.Q4,PxP; 

7    0-0,    P X  P;     8    Q.Kt3,    Q.-B3;     9  P.K5,  Q-KtS; 

10  Kt X  P,    K Kt  .  K  2.      (Dia^am.) 

////7/7,     Ik    /////////,     ♦      y//7/////,  >y-  -  -V mAmwm ti 

11 

12 

18 

14 

15 

16 
17 

18 

10 

20 

51 

B-R3 

R-QKtsq Kt-Q5     (1) 

KtxKt BxKt P^Kti T.K6       (2) 

BPxP BxKt PxB Kt.K5 

Q-K5 

Q-KKt3 

P.Kt3 
Q-Kt5 
P-KtS Q-B6       (3) 

R-Bsq Q-Kt7 

R.Kt4      (4) 

P.Kt4 
KtxKt Kxli Q-R3ch K-Ksq QxB 

(5) 

KtxKt BxKt     (6) 

(7) 

(8) 

PxB QxBP Q-Kt.3 
Q-Q6       (9) 

^8 

P-Kt4 
KtxP R-QKtsq BxKt  (10) 

in<B Q-R3ch B-Kt5 
Q-K3 

K-Qsq Kt-Kt5 

R-Bsq QR.Qsq_+ 

<11) 

64 

0-0 

QR-Qsq(12) 

P-Kt4    (13) 

B-Q3     (14) 

Q-R4! 

Kt-K4 

R-Ktsq KKt-Kt5 

K-Rsq P-B4 

Kt-Q5 

Q-Ktsq FKt5" 

B-Bsq 

(16) 

B-Kt3 
K-Rsq  + 

(16) 

55 

R-Ksq P-Kt4 
KtxP 

(17) 

R-QKtsq Kt-R4 

Q-R4 
R-K4 

(18) 

P-Kt4 
B-K2 

Q-R3 
Q-QR3 

P-R3 
Kt-Q4 
B1U5" 
Q-Q3 

KtxKt RxKt Q-Kt2 
Kt-B3 

P-R3^> 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.  119* 

Notes ta Table   57. 

(1)  Or  12  QR-Qsq  (Pierce.)  Or  12  Kt-QKt5,  (if)  P-QR3  ;  13  Kt-Q6ch  ? 
PxKt;  14  PxP,  Kt-B4  (Mr.  Pierce gives  14  ..,  P-Kt4I);  15  KR-Ksqch, 
BxR;  16  RxBch,  K-Bsq  ;  17  B-Q5,  R-Rsq  ;  18  Q-Kt6,  P-B3  ;  19  Bxl^t, 
KtP X  B ;    20  Kt-R4 1  +  (Monck) :     13  QKt-Q4  is to Black's advantage. 

(2)  This seems premature.  14  B-B5  would be a  good preparatory move,  though the Schachzeitung coudemns it,  (0.  E.  R.)  Mr.  Wayte gives B-Kt3  as the aaswering move,  leaving the QKtP to be taken. 

(3)  19  KR-Ksq,  Q-B4  ;  20QxQ,  KtPxQ;  21B-Kt2,0.0;  22  KtxP,  R-Kt4* 
r.JKtxRP,  R-Q4;    24KtxB,  RxKt;    25BxP.    (Monck.) 

(4)  Mr.  W.  T.  Pierce analysing this position thinks  21  QR-Qsq will effect a  draw. 
If  21  ..,  R-Q4  or Q-R5;  22  KtxBP,  &c.:  if  21  ..,  RorQxKt,'22  R-Q8ch,  &c. 
{B.  C.  M.,  1884,  p.  123.) 

(5)  This Col.  is by Zukertort from the  1883  Tournament Book. 

(6)  14  BxKtP,  P-QB3;  15  BxKt,  ExB;  16  Q-R3,  B.Kt3;  17  B-Q6+ 
(ZuJcertort v.  Smith.) 

(7)  If  15  B-Q3,  Q-QKt3  ? ;    16  Kt-KtS.    (MonCk.) 

(8)  Or  15  . .,  K-Qsq;    16  B.Q3,  Q-Kt3 ;    17  Kt-KtS,  &c.    (Zukertort.) 

(9)  If  18  . . ,  Q X  Q ;  19  P x  Q,  B.R3 ;  -  20  KR-Ksq ch,  K-Bsq  ;  21  R-K7,  with' a fine attack.    (Zukertort.)    Or'18  ..,  P-KR4  to play R-R3.     (TurnbuU.) 

(10)  13Q-R4,  P.QR3?  (B-Kt3l alsd B-Kt2!);  14  Kt-Q6ch,  PxKt;  15  PxP, 
Kt-B4  (if B-Kt2  ;  16  QR-Qsq) ;  16  KR-Ksq ch,  B x  R ;  17  R x  Bch,  KKt.K2 ; 
18  B-Q5.    (C.  E.  R.)    If  18  P X  Kt,  R-Kt8 ;    19  B x  Pch.     (Monck.) 

(11)  The Schachzeitung has a  continuation  17  P-QR3 ;    18  P-K6,  R x  Kt,  &c. 

(12)  If  12  Kt-Q5,  Kt X  Kt ;     13  B x  Kt,  R-Qsq.     Tschigorin v.  Riemann played 

12  Kt-K2,  P-Q3  ;  13B-Q3,  B-B4;  14  Kt-R4,  Q-K3 ;  ISKtxB,  KtxKt;  16Q.B2, 
QKt-Q51;  17KtxKt,  KtxKt;  18  B x  Pch,  K-Rsq ;  19Q-Q3,  QxKP;  20  Q-R3, 
Kt-K7ch;  21  K-Rsq,  Kt-B5;  22  Q-R4,  P-KKt4;  23  Q-R6,  Q.Kt2 ;  24  B-Kt2. 
P-KB3  and  \s'ins. 

(13)  Ifl2P-QR3;    13  Kt-Q5. 

(14)  13  B-Q3,  Q-K3 ;  14  B x  Pch,  K-Rsq :  or White may play  14  Kt-Q5.  Another continuation is  13  B-Q3,  Q-Kt5 ;  14  P-KR3,  Q-K3 ;  15  B x  Pch,  K-Rsq ;  16  Kt-Q5, 
P-Kt5 ;  17  B-Bsq,  Kt x  Kt ;  18  R x  Kt,  Kt-K2 ;  19  B-K4,  B-Kt2 1 ;  20  KR-Qsq 
(20  Kt-Kt5,  BxR),  Kt x R ;  21  Kt-Kt5.  Q x P  ;  22  B x Kt,  B x B ;  23  R x B, 
Q-K8ch;  24  KJ12,  QxB;  25  Q-KB3,  P-KKt3.  (C.  M.):  Mr.  Gattie prefers 
14  Kt-K4  (if)  R-Ktsq ;      15  KKt-Kt5. 

If  13  KtxP,  R-Ktsq;  14  Q-R4.  or B.Q3,  followed by Q-R4:  after  14  Q-R4, 
P-QR3  ;  15  B X  Kt wins back the Pawn.  See Cols.  59  and  60  for  13  B.Q3 1  after KB-Qsq. 

(15)  If  18  B.Kt2,  B.Kt3  followed by KKt.B4. 

(16)  If now  19  ..,  KKt-B4;  20  QxP,  &c.:  if  19  ..,  P.QR4;  20  Kt-KtS followed by Kt x  RP.     See also Cols.  59  and  60. 

(17)  11  Kt-K4  is suggested as playable by Mr.  W.  T.  Pierce.  •  See B.  C.  M.  1891, 
p.  274.    If  11  ...QxKt;    12Kt-Kt5.        If  11  P-QR4?.  BxKt;     12QxB,  P-Q4I; 

13  P X  P enjpas,  PxP;    14  B-R3,  B-Kt5 ;    15  B-Q3,  Q-R3 ;    16  KR-Ksq,  0-0  + . 

(18)  Or  13  ..,  Q-KtS;  U Q.R4,  K-Qsq;  15  Kt.KB3.  BxR;  16  KtxB, 
P.QR3+. 

t20  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  58.— THE EVAN'S GAMBIT.     (Part IL) 

1   PvK4.  P-K4;     2  Kt 

•KB3,  Kt-QBS;     3   B.B4,    B-B4; 

4  P.QKU,   BxKtP; 

5  P-B3.  B-R4;     6  P-Q4,  PxP; 

7  0-0,    Px P;       8  Q-Kt  3  ,  Q  .  B  3  ;       9   P-K  5  ,   Q-Kt  3  ; 

10  Kt xP, 

KKt-K2.     (Dia.  p.  118.) 

56                   57 

58                  59                  60 

n B-Q«i 

12 
18 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 

FKt4  0-0         (G) 

KtxP B-R3       (7) 

R.QKtsq P-QR3  ?  P-QKt4      ~ 

B-Q3  B-Q3  B-Q3 

Q:K3       ^     Ql^tB Q-K3?  Q-R4 

Q-R4       (1)     P-KR3    (2)  Kt-Qo     (8)  KtK4 

P-QR3  Q-QKt5  R-Ksq     (9)  P-Kt5  B-Kt3    (11) 

QxB!  QxQ KtJCtS Kt-Kt3  BxKtP RorPxKt BxQ      (3)  QxP Q-Kt5  R-Ktsq QxBP-l-         KtxPcb HxPch B-Kt2    (10)     Q.Q3 

K-Qsq     (4)  K-Bsq R-Ksq   (12) 

Kt-QKt5  KtxKt-t-  QB x  Kt P-QR3  Kt X  B K)i-Q6  BxP WM R-Qsq P-Ktsq    (5)  B-Kt4 

RxQ BxQ 

(1)  Orl4Q-:&t2;P-QR3;    15  QKt-Q4,  Q.Q4 ;    16  Kt-Kt3,  &c.    (Potter.) 

(2)  14B-K2,P-QR3;    15  Kt.Kt5,  Q-B4 ;    16  P-Kt4. 

(3)  15  ...KtxQ;    16KtxRP,KtxB;    17RxKt  =  . 

(4)  16  ..,K-Bsq;   17  B-KB4. 

(5)  Or  19  Kt-  X Pch.     White for choice.     (Potter.) 

(6)  11  . . ,  B-Kta ;     12  Q-R3,  0-0 ;    13  Kt-K2,  or B-KB4,  or B-Q3. 

(7)  Or  12  B-Q3,  Q-R4 1     ^0.  E.  R.) 

(8)  Or  14  B X  Pch. 

(9)  14..,KtxKt;  15BxPch.  If  14  . . ,  B-Kt5 ;  15BxB,  KtxB;  16QxKt, 
KtxKt;     17  Bx Pch followed by QxR-f. 

(10)  Or  16  P-K'R3,  Q-K3 ;     17  B-B4,  Q-Kt3  ;     18  B-Bsq  = . 

(11)  14  ..,  B.kt2;  15  BxKt,  KtxB;  16  QxKtP.  If  14  ..,  R-Ktsq; 
15  P-KR3  threatening Kt  (K4)  Kt5-f :  for  15  KKt-Kt5  see Col.  54. 

(12)  16  R-Qsq is better in Mr.  Potter's opinion.  He gives,  but does not recommend the continuation  17  Kt-B6ch,  PxKt;  18  PxP,  Bx Pch;  19  KxB,  QxB; 
':0  Q X  Q,  R x  Q  :  21  P x  Kt,  R-Kaq ;  22  QR-Bsq,  &c.  The variations on this page i  1-3  from Land and Water. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT*S OPENING.  !» 

Table  69.— THE EVANS GAMBIT DECLINED. 

1   P.K4.  P.K4;    2    Kt-KB8,  Kt  •  Q B  3 ;    8  B-Bl,  3-34; 
4  P.QKt4,    B.Kt3. 
1^845 
.     P-QR4 !  P-Kt5 

P-QR3    (1)  Kt-R4 

^     P-B3  0-0  P-Q4  KtxP     (5)  ^ 

Kt-B8l P-Q3  BxP Kt-R3  Q-Kt4 

T Q-Kt3     (2)     P-R5       (3)    KtxB P-Q4  BxPcb    _ 

^     0-0  B-R2  KtxKt P-Q3  K-K2 

P-Q3  P-Kt5  ?  0-0  BxKt BxKt 

^    P-Q3  PxP P-Q3  Px^      (6)  QxKt P-R5  BxKtP P-B4  BxPch  (7)  B-Q5 

^    B-R2  KKt-K2  B-K3  K-K2  p.B3 

B-KKt5  P-Q4  BxB Q-B3  PQ4 

Q-K2  PxP KtxB BxP      (8)  BxP 

0-0      —        KtxP P-B5  Kt-B3  P-KB4 

10 
11 

Kt-Qeq—        0-0 1  Kt-Kt4  P-BS Q-B3 

KtxKt Kt-B3—         PxP P-B3 

*^  KtxKt P-R3-^(4)    BxKtch BxPcb B-Kt2  QxB KtxB 

^^  Q-Kt4+  PxKt QxKtch B-Q5  B-Q2 

^*  KtxP4-(9)  Q-Q5     (10) 

(1)  5  ..,  P.QR4;  6  P-KtS,  Kt-Q5;  .7. KtxP,  Q-Kt4+.  Por other variations aee Giuoco Piano Opening,  p.  78,  Cols.  9  and  10. 

(2)  So pla.yed Bird v.  Rosenthal.  Blackbume and Potter v.  Steinitz and Znkertort went as follows ;— 7  Q-K2.  P-Q3 ;  8  P-Q3,  B-K3;  9  Kt-RS,  Kt-K2; 
10  0-0,  P-B3  =  . 

(3)  7  P-B3,  B-Kt5  ;  8  P-Q3,  Q-B3 ;  ft B-KS,  KKt-K2 ;  10  QKt.Q2,  Kt-KtS. 
(Tschigorin v.  Zukertort.) 

(4)  Zukertort v.  Englisch. 

(5)  6  B-K2,  Kt-B3  (or P-Q4  I Barbier) ;  7  P-Q3,  P-Q3 ;  8  B-Kt5.  P-KR3 ; 
9  B-R4.     (Pollock V.  Blackbume.) 

(6)  If  8  ...  PxKt;  9  BxKtP,  Q>^P:  lOQxQ,  BxQ;  UBxR.  BxR; 
12  B-Q3,  K-K2 ;     13  B-Kt7,  &c. 

(7)  Or  9  Kt X  P,.  Q-B3 ;  10  Kt x  R,  B x  P ;  11  Q-R5ch,  K-K2  ;  12  Q-B7ch. 
QxQ;  13  B or KtxQ,  BxR+.  If  ^Vhite plays  10  Q-R5,  or P-K5,  the result is also in Black's favour.     (Rosenthal.)    Gossip gives  9  . . ,  Q-R5. 

(8)  If  10  . . ,  P X  Kt ;   11  PxP wins.     If  10  . . .  R-Bsq,  11  Kt-B3-I- .     (Rosenthal.) 

(9)  This attack was analysed by Rosenthal in La Strat^ie. 

(10)  15  BxKt,  Q-K6ch;  16  Q.K2,  QxQch,  17  KxQ.  PxB:  18  P>t£. 
P-Q3<&c.    (Wayte.) 

122  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  60.-THE    "EVANS GAMBIT DECLINED. 

1P..K4,P.K4;    2KtKB3,KtQB3;    3B.B4,B-B4; 
4  P-QKt4.   B-Kt3  . 

6  7  8  9  10 

.     PKt5  00 

KFRi Kt-B3  ? 

fi KtxP PKt5 

QJUi B-Q5  QB3  Kt-QR4 

KtxBP QB3  KtxBP BxPch KtxP 

^     QxKtP QxTt Q.B3  K-Bsq     (4)    Q-0         (6) 

R-Bsq QxPch Q-K2  PQ4  BxPch 

®     QxKPch K-Qsq K't^TB P-Q3  RxB Q-K2  B-Kt2     (1)  KtxR BxKt KtxR 

^     QxQch QxKPch BxR PxKt KxKt KxQ K-Qsq QxKt BQ5  P-K5 

KtxB Q-K2       (2)  KFK2  PB3  Kt-Ksq KtxR BxP P-QB3  B-R3ch B-R3 

P.Q4  KtxB plQi K-Ksq K-Ktsq P-Q3  QxQcb QxBP+  00  Q-B3 

Kt-Q3  KtxQ PxB P-Q3 

R-Ktsq BxR Kt-B3  R-Ksq    + 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 

K-Bsq P-Q4-f-    (8)  BxP B-Kt2  KtvP Kt-B4  Q-B2 

KtB3  E-Q6 

15     KKt-K2+  (6) 

(1)  9  QB8ch,  Q-Ksq;     10  QxP,  Kt-K2  (if  10  ..,  KtxB,  11  P-Q3);     11  B-B7, 
Q-Bsq;    12  Q-B6.     (C E.  R.)    White has three Pawns for his piece. 

(2)  10..,  KtxB;     11  BxP,  Q.K2;    la QxV^ch,  Ktx Q ;    13BxR,BxP-f. 

(Rosenthal.) 

(3)  Berber v.  Goring.    (C.  P.  C,  1878.) 

(4)  If  7  . . ,  K.K2 :  .8  P-Q4,  P.Q3 ;    9  B-R3,  Kt-R3  ;     10  B.Kt3+. 

(5)  If  15  ..,Kt.B5;    16  Kt-B7ch,  K-Qsq;     17'BxKP,  KtxB:     18  QxB and wins:  if  15  ..,B-Kt3;    IGBxKP.  &c. 

(6)  If  7  ..,P.Q3:    8  BxPch,  K-Bsq:    9  B-R3.    The Col.  and Note are given Gossip's Tluory of the Chess Openivgs. 

THK KlJNa'W KNIGHT'S OPENING.  12$^ 

Table  61.— THE EVANS GAMBIT DECLINED. 

10 

P.K4;      2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-Q B  3  ;      3  B-B4,  B-B4; 
4  P-QKt4,    P-Q4. 

12                   18                   14  15 

BxP    (10) 

■""  KtxP 

(1)     KtxP B-R3  B-Kt3   (11) 

B-Kt5     (2)     KtxQP(4)    Q-Kt4             Q-Q3  Kt-KB3 

R-Ksq B-Kt5ch  (5)    0-0         (7)    P-QB3    (9)  Q-K2 

P-KB3             P-QB3            B-R6              KtxQP  0-0 

P-B3               KtxQBP P-Kt3     (8)    BxB  0-0 

BxKt Q-Kt3             BxR QxB B-Kt5 

Q-R4ch Q.-K2ch P-Q4              Q-Kt3  B-Kt2  — 

P-B3               K^Bs^             Q-K2              KKt^B3  Q-K2   — 
PxKt Kt-Kt4           KxB KtxP B-Q5               B-K3               0-0-0             0-0 
Kt-B3+(3)     KtxKt P-QB3            P-Q4    — 

1 

^^  BxKt KtxQP!        Q-Q3 

0-0  Q-B3 

^^  Q-Kt3  FQB3 

P.Kt3  (6)    KtxKBP  + 

(1)  6P-B3,KtxQP;    7KtxP,B.K3;    8  Q-Kt3,  B-Kt3 ;    9  P-QK4,  &o. 

(2)  6  ..,  Q-Q3;  7  Kt-B3,  Kt-KB3;  8  R-Ksq  (C.  M.).  Or6  ..,  B-B4;  7  P-Q3, 
&0. 

(3)  Ifli  ..,BxKt;  12PxB,BxQP;  13  R-Qsq,  Kt.K2  ;  14  BVB,  KtxB; 
15  P-QB4,  &c. 

(4)  Or  6  ..,  Q-B3;  7  P-Q4,  BxP:  if  7  0-0,  B-Q5  (or Kt.K2);  8  P-QB3, 
BxKt;    9  Q-R4ch,  B-Q2  ;    10  Q x  Kt,  0-0-0  (0.  E.  R.) 

(5)  Or7P-Q4,  B.Kt5ch;    8B.Q2,  BxBch;    9KtxB,  B-K3  =  . 

(6)  Black can recover his Pawn,  and the game looks about  €quaU    (C.  E.  R.) 

(7)  If  7  Q-K2,  Kt X Pch  ;  8  K-Qsq,  Kt-Q5  ;  9.B-Kt5ch  +  '  (Minckwitz)  :  if 
9  Kt-B3ach,  Q-K2;  10  QxQch,  KtxQ;  11  KtxKt,  BxKt;  12  .Kt-QB3, 
BxP! 

(8)  If  8  Q-B3,  Q'xKt;  9  QxB,  KtxBP;  10  Q-QKt3,  B-Q3  I ;  h P-KKt3, 
Kt-Q5;      12   QxP,    Kt-BGcli";      13-  K-Rsq,    R::Qsqi__14  B-Kt2,  Q-R4-I-. 

(9)  Or  7  BxKt,  BxB;    8  P-B3,  B-QB4  =  . 

(10)  5  B-Kt5,  PxPI;  6PxB,  PxKt;  7BxKtch.  PxB;  8  Q or PxP, 
Kt-K2-^. 

(11)  If  6  Kt-B3,  Kt X  B ;;   7  Kt x  Kt;  P-QB3  ;    8  Kt-K3  =* ,     6  B x  Pch i»  ^ot  80 

£00d. 

124 

THE KING^S KNIGHT'S OPENING, 

SECTION XV- 

RUY LOPEZ'    KNIGHTS GAME. 

1  P-K4.    P-K4;     2Kt-KB3.    Kt-QB3;     8B-Kt5. 

TT is somewhat diflQcult for the student to master the theory of this 
1  opening,  owing to ifh present form having been ajrrived at by a  slow process of trial and selection,  which is rot yet so far advanced as to have reached simphcity.  It dates from the Gottingen MS,  1490,  but derives its title from a  Spanish Bishop,  who lived in the reign of Phihp II.  The original idea in playing  3  B-Kt5  was to continue the attack on Black's King's Pawn.  This,  however,  led to no advantage,  and Walker,  so recently as  1841,  wrote  "  your third move  (B-Kt5)  was weak,  as Black may safely let you win KP"  (Col.  4,  note  9).  The Giuoco Piano development, 
by  8  B-B4,  had then the preference,  until the defence to that opening was strengthened,  and the second player got a  little better position by the moves  8  B-B4,  B-B4  ;  4  P-B3,  Kt^BS  ;  5  P-Q4,  P x  P  ;  6  P-K5,  P-Q4. 
Here  7  B-QKt5  serves to check the opposing player's development ;  hence the cojiclusion that B-Kt5  on the third move would save time.  The answering thought for'the~secefid player wa^  to attack the Bishop at Kt5 
by  8  ...,  P-QR3,  and in case he took the Kt with the idea of doubling a 
pawn,  secure an open game by QP x  B.  To prevent this,  the Bishop retired to R4,  tind it was found that to follow him up by P-QKt4  did not turn out satisfactorily.     The Bishop by this process was driven to a  good THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING,  125 

square  (QKt3)  where the Giuoco Piano defence,  above named,  was still unavailable,  while Black's advanced Pawns wer0  frequently an element of weakness in the end-eame.  They were besides liable to be broken up at any time by P-QR4  on the other side.  Accepting therefore the restraining move  3  B-Kt5  as quite sound,  the usual defence Becanle Kt-KB3  before,  or after  3...,  P-QR3.  The Knight's move as a  counter attack is stronger in the Lopez than in the Giuoco Piano.  Owing to the White KBishop being off the diagonal commanding Black's KBPawn the retort by Kt-Kt5,  as played in the Two Knight's Defence,  loses its force The first player has however still at command the Piano attack by P-Q3,  followed in due time by P-Q4  or P-KB4 ;  also the more rapid attack arising out of P-Q4 
at once,  or after castling.  Or he may defer aggressive operations and bring out his QKt.  The first and last of these three courses being transpo- 
sitions of the Giuoco,  Piano,  and Four Knight's Game,  lead after a  few moves to positions which may occur in approved forms of those openings. 
The attacking player obtains a  good development,  and retains for a 
long time the advantage of the first move.  The second line of play  (P-Q4) 
is a  further check on his opponent's development,  for the latter has no better square for his King's Bishop than K2.  Planted there he strengthens the King's file,  clears the way for castling,  and guards KKt4  against a 
supported piece.  On the other,  hand he stands in  ((he way of both Queen and Queen's Knight,  and blocks the position genei'ally.  The idea of the Lopez is thus a  synthesis of two principles. 

1.    That a  development move is good. 

.2.  That,  by inversion,  a move which hinders fhe adversary's development is good. 

3.  That a  move which is partly developing and partly restraining is also good. 

In cramping Black's game,  by an early attack on his Centre,  the first player is obliged to leave his own Queen's side undeveloped.  His opponent should therefore so frame the defence that the two moves which White must ultimately devote to bringing out his Q  Knight and Bishop will give time to equalise the positions.  Meanwhile Black will have to guard carefully against combinations with the Pawns and Pieces already in play.  The question whether he should drive the Bishop to QR4 
on his third move has not yet been satisfactorily decided.  The German players are in favour of  3  ...,  Kt-KB3  and,  as a  rule,  the British and Americans prefer  3  ...,  P-QR3.  All that can be said at present is that the latter move may be postponed without disadvantage. 

A number of tentative,  or counter attacking moves,  have been introduced into the defence,  such as  3  ...,  P-KKt3,  P-KB4,  Kt-Q5, 
QKt-K2,  &c.,  all of which have special points which tend to cloud the issue.  They have the disadvantage of making the defence more diflicult against strong play,  and it has not yet been shown that they get rid of the attack any sooner,  or any more effectually than  3  ...,  Kt-KB3.  Mr. 
Steinitz has recently advocated  3  ...,  P-Q3  which transposes the opening into a  variation of the Philidor defence. 

126  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table:62.— BUY LOPEZ'^  KNIGHT'S GAME., 

10 
11 

iP.K4,    P_.K4;    2Kt_._KB_3,   Kt-QBS;    3  B-KtS^ 
12  8  4  5 

P-Q3       (1)     B-B4  P-QR3 

P-Q4       (2)     P-B3       (5)  BxKt B-R4 

B-Q2  (3)     KKt-K2  (6)  Q.K2  QPxB!  P-QKt4(12) 

BxKt  (4)     00  00  0-0         (9)  B-Kt3 

BxB  0-0  P-B3  B-Q3  Kt-R4    (13) 

Kt-B3  PQ4  PQ4  PQ4  0-0       (14) 

P-B3  PxP B-Kt3  PxP     (IQ)  Ktx15 

0-0  PxP Kt-R3     (8)    QxP RPxKt Kt-K2  B-Kt3  Kt-Qsq P-B3  P-Q3 

PxP P-Q5  Kt>B4  R-Ksq P«Q4 

QPxP Kt-Ktsq Kt-B2  Kt.K2  P-KB3 

Q-K2  'P-Q6  Kt-K3  P-K5  Kt-B3 

Kt-Kt3  PxP       (7)  P-B3  PxP B-Kt2 

B-K3  Kt-B54-  KtxP P-Q5 

Q-Q2  Q-Bsq  0-0  Kt-K2^ 

QRQsq—  B-Kt5—         Kt-K2  + 

.Q-B2    —  Q-Ksq   (11) 

(1)  If3..,P-B3;    4BxKt,  QPxB:-6KtxKPl 

(2)  If  4  P-B?,  P-B4  I  (Steinitz.) 

(3)  4  ...PxP;  5  QxP,  B-Q2;  6BxKtBxB;  7  B-Kt5  +  .  This variation frequently occurs in Philidor's Defence.     See Table  10,  Col.  5. 

(4)  Or  5  0-0,  B-iC2 ;  6  Kt-B3,  &c.    Or  5  P x  P,  P x  P ;  6  0-0,  B-Q3  ;  7  Kt-B3.  Ac. 

(5)  If  4  BxKt.  QPxB;    5  Kt x  P.  B x Pch.  &c. 

(6)  Or4..,Q-fe3;  50-O.KKt-K2;  6P-Q4,PxP;  7  B-Kt5  or B  x Kt.  If4..,Kt.B3; 
6  P-Q4,  PxP,  6  P-K5,  Kt-K5 ;  7  0-0  I or  7  P x  P with a  better position  :  a game Mayet v.  Anderssen runs :— 5  B x  Kt,  QP x  B ;  6  0-0,  B-KKt5  ;  7  P-KB3,  P-KR4  ; 
8PxB,  PxP;  9KtxP,  P-Kt6;  10P-Q4,  KtxP;  11Q-Kt4,  BxP;  12  QxKt, 
B X  Pch ;    13  R xB,  Q-Q8ch  ;    14  R-Bsq,  R.R8  ch and Q  mates. 

(7)  If    10    B-KB4,    P-Q4.     Gossip gives  10  QxP,   B-B2 ;     11   Q-R3,    P-Q4 
12R.Qsq-t-. 

(8)-  If  7  P-QR4  I  (Steinitz),  P-QR3  ;    8  B-B4,  P-Q3 ;    9  P-R5,  B-R2I 
(9     If  5  Kt X  P,  Q-Q5,  &c.     After  5  0-0,  Q-B3  may come in. 

(10)  If  6  ..,  B-KKt5;  7  PxP,  BxKt;    8QxB,  BxP;    9  Q-QKt3-f . 

(11)  12  Kt-B4.  Kt-B4 ;    13  R x  Q,  Kt x  Q ;    14  R x  Rch,  K x  R ;    15  QKt-R3,  &c. 

(12)  If  4  ..,P-KB4;    6  P-Q4! 

(13)  5  ...  B-Kt2;  6  0-0,  P-KKt3 ;  7  P-Q3,  B-Kt2;  8  P-QR4  (Anderssen)  or Kt-Kt5  (Steinitz). 

(14)  Or  6  P-B3,  (if)  Kt X  B ;  7  Q x  Kt,  Kt-B3  or B.K2 ;  8  P-Q3,  P-Q3 ;  9  P-QB* + ? 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING.  W Table  63.— RUY LOPEZ'  KNIGHT'S GAME. 

1P.K4,  P.K4;    2  Kt-KBS.  Kt-QBS;    3  B-KtS,  P.QRS; 

4  B'E4,  Kt-Bd. 

6                    7  8                   9  10 

"^W^  PQKti g    BxKtcb P.B3  Kt-B3  B-Kt3 

PxB WK2  P-KKt3  P.KKtS  (6)  B-Kt5cli  (8) 

-     P-KR3    (1)  P.KB3  (3)     QKt-Q2  (5)  0-0  P-B3       (9) 

'     FKt3  OO  ^    B-Kt2  iP-QKt4  B-R4 

A B-K3  Q-K2  Kt-Bsq B-Kt3  B-K3 

^    B-KKta Kt-Ksq  0-0  B-Kt5  FQ3         " 

Kt-B3  P-^Kt4  Kt-Kt3  Kt-Q5  0-0 

^     R.QKtsq PrQKU P-QKt4  Kt-Q5  ?  KFK2       ^ 

P-QKt3  B-B2  B-B2  KKtxKt QKt-Q2 

P.B4  B-QKt2  P-Q4  BxQ Kt-Kt3 

Q-Q2  QKt-Q2  0-0  Kt-B6  P-Q4    — 

P-R3  WW P^iKs KtxKt Q-K2    — 

P-KKt4  Kt-Bsq B-Q2—  KtxQ+ 

Kt-Ktsq  (2)  Kt-Qsq B-K3—  RxKt     (7) 

10 
11 
12 
18 

Kt-K2  —        Kt-K3— 

—        Kt-K3—(4) 

(1)  To play B-K3  without fear of Kt-KtS. 

(2)  T!'hence,  by K2,  and QB3,  to reach Q5.    (Bandlmch.J 

(8)  7  QK:t-Q2,  0-0;  8  Kt-Bsq,  Kt.Q2;  9  B-KS,  P-Bi;  10  PxP,  ExP; 
U B-lCtSch,  KrBsq.    (Paris v.  Vienna.) 

(4)  Steinitz v.  Blackbume. 

(6)  Rosenthal V.  Zukertort.  If  7 P-Q4 ? ,  P.QKt4 ;  8B.B2,PxP;  9PxP.P.QI; 
10  P.K5,  Kt.K5 ;    11  0-0,  B-KKt5  (Steinitz). 

(6)  Or6,.,B.K2;  7P-KI13,  0-0;  8  B.K3,  B.K3;  9  P-Q4,  &o. 

(7)  Blackbume v.  Zukertort. 

(8)  The Eandbuch notes as playable  6  . . ,  P-Q4.  If  6  . . ,  B.B4  ;  7  0-0 !,  P.Q4  ? : 
8PxP,  KtxP;    9R-K8q.    (C.  E.  R.)  ' 

(9)  If  7  B-Q2,  B X  Bch ;  and Black's QKt plays by K2  to KKt3.  Hence  8  B-K8 
to keep the command of KB4.  Th©  idea of this column U  to work into a  Giuoco Piano positioi^ 

128  THE jKING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

1 

Table  64.— EUY LOPEZ'    KNIGHT'S GAME. 

1P.K4,  P.K4;     2Kt.KB8,  Kt-QB8;     3  B-Kt6,  P-Q B  8  ; 
4  B-K4,   Kt.B8. 

11                    12  IS                   14  15 

5  ^-Q^               P-Q4  Q-K2  Kt-BB B-B4               PxPl     (8)  p.QKt4!  B^Bi 

6  Q-Q         (1)    P-K5       (4)  B-KtB P-Q3     (12) 
P-QKt4           KFKB B^Bl       (9)  P-QKt4 

7  ^-^^^             0-0  P-QR4  (10)  B>KtB I 
P-QB B-K2  R-QKtsq P-Q3     (18)  " 

ft    ^-K3               B-Ksq KtxP PxP B-Kt5 

B-KKt5           Kt.B4  Kt-B4             PxP FR3 

q     ^-^^               BxKt Kt-B5     (B)    Kt-B3  BxKt P-B3               QPxB  0-0 1       (7)    P-Kt5    (11)  QxB? 

QKt-Q2-~       KtxP Q-Kt4             Kt-Q5  Kt-Q5  + 

0-0     —(2)    OO P-KKt3          0-0  Q:Qiq Kt-QB3—  BxKt—       0-0   -> 

p.B8  ~(6)  QPxB— (8)    P-Q3  — 

10 
11 

(1)  6Kt-B3,  P-QKt4;  7  B-Kt3,  P.Q3.  If  6  P-B3,  P-QKt4;  7  B.Kt3,  P-Q4?; 
8  P X  P,  Kt X  P ;   9  0-0  {Handbuch). 

(2)  If  10  ..,Kt-K2;    llBxB,PxB;    12BxPch,&c. 

(3)  If5..,  KtxQP;  6  KtxKt,  PxKt;  7  P-K5,  Kt-K5;  8  QxP.  Kt.B4.  If 
5  . . ,  Kt X  KP ;   6  0-0  leads into Col.  16. 

(4)  Moves  6  and  7  are frequently tranaposed.    If  7  . . ,  B-B4  ? ;  8  P-B3. 

(5)  If  11  ..,  Kt-K3;  12  Kt-B5,  B-Kt4 ;  13'Q-Kt4,  BxB;  14  QRxB,  Q.Kt4; 
ISQxQ,  KtxQ;    16  Kt-K7ch,  K-Bsq ;    17  P-B4,  «fec. 

(6)  9BxKt,  QPxB;  10B-K3,O-O;  11  Kt-QB3,  P-KB3;  (if)  12  PxP,  RxP; 
13  Q-K2,  R-B2  (or  13  . .,  Il.Kt3) ;  14  QR-Qsq,  Q-Bsq,  &o.  The Col.  runs ds played between Zukertort and Mackenzie. 

(7)  If  9  ..,KtxB,;  10  Kt x  Pch,  K-Bsq ;  11  B-B6,  K-Ktsq ;  12Kt.K6,BPxKt; 
18  Q-Kt4cli,  B.Kt4 ;    14BxB,  QKtxP;    15  Q-Kt3  and wins. 

(8)  12  Kt X  Bch,  Q X  Kt ;    13  Q.Kt3,  R-KSq ;    l4  R-Ksq,  B-B4,  &c. 

(9)  If6  ..,  B-Kt2;  7P-Q3.  If6..,B-K2;  7  P-QR4,  P.Kt5;  8  P-Q4  PxP; 
9P-K5+. 

(10)  7P-B3,  0-0;  8  P-Q3:  if  8  0-0,  P-Q4 1 ;  9*PxP,  KtxP;  10  KtxP?, 
Kt-B5  1;    if  11  Q-B3,  Kt-R6ch ;    or if  11  Q-K4,  Q-R6-{-.    (Pollock.) 

(11)  9  ..,  0-0;  10  KtxKtP,  P-Q3;  11  P-KR3,  Kt-KR4;  12  Kt-B3,  Kt-B6; 
13  Q-Bsq,  RxB;  14  PxR,  Kt-Kt5!  16  K-Qsq,  KICt-Q6;  16  R-KR2,  P-B4; 
17  Kt.Q5,  KtxKBPch ;    18  K-Ksq,   Kt-B7ch and wins.     (Riemann v.  Anderssen.) 

(12)  6  0-0,  is not so good after  3  . . ,  P-QR3.  If  6  Kt x  P,  Kt x  Kt ;  7  P-Q4,  B-Q3 ; 
8  0-0,0-0;  9P-B4,Kt-B5l;  10P-K5,B-K2;  llPxKt,BxP;    12  B-Kt3,  P.Q4 !. 

(13)  If7P-B3;   8Kt-K8. 

h Table  65.— RUY LOPEZ*    KNIGHT'S GAME. 

1P.K4,P-K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3;    3  B -Kt  5 ,  P- QB3  ; 
4  B-R'4,  Kt-B3;   5  0-0,  KtxP.  (1) 

After Black's  5th move. 

17 

10 

11 

12 

P,QKt4  ^2) 

B'-Kt3 

FQ4 

P X  P      (3) 

Kt-K2 

R-Ksq     (4) 

Kt-QB4 

Kt-Q4 

Kt-K3 

P-QB3 

P-QB4 

Kt-B3 

]Kt-B2+ 

13-K3 

PJB3   _(5) 
B-QB4    (6) 
B-B2 
0-0 
Q-K2 
B-B4 
B-B4    ~ 

^ 

P-Q5       (7) 

PxB PxKt P-Q3 
R-Ksq B-B4 
P-B3 

B-K2 
QxRP 

(8) 

Kt-B4 

19 

Kt-B3 

KtxKt KtPxKt(9) 

P-QKt4 

B-Kt3 

P-Q4! 

P-QR4  (10) 

R-QKtsq PxP PxP B-Ksq  + 

20 

R-Ksq Kt-B4   (11) 

BxKt QPxB P-Q4 

Kt-K3 

KtxP  (12) 

■B-K2 
B-K3 

(13) 

0-0 

P-KB4  (14) 
P-B3 

KtKB3— 
<J.Q4     ^ 

180  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Notes to Table  65. 

(l)5..,B^K2;  6Kt.B3l,P.QKt4;  7B.Kt3,  P.Q3;  8  P-KE3,  0-0;  0  P.Q3, 
Kt.QR4 ;   10  B.K3,  P-B3,  &c. 

(2)  6  . . ,  B-K2 ;  7  R-Ksq,  P.QKt4 ;  8  R x  Kt  (Wayte v,  Thorold).  If then  8  . ., 
P.B4;   9RxP,  KtxR;    lOKtxKt,  PxB;   11  Q-R5cli,  &c. 

(3)  8  KtxP may also he played.    Tschigorin v.  Rosenthal played  8  P-QR4; 

(4)  Threatening  10  RxKt,   (if)  PxR;    11  BxPch.     If  9  Kt-Kt5,   KtxKt 

10  B X  Kt,  B-Kt2  (or  10  . . ,  P-QB3 1) ;    11  Q-B3,  Q.Q2  ;    12  Kt-B3  (Zukertort). 

(5)  If  9  P-QR4,  P-Kt5I  (Handbuch).    If  9B-K3.B-K2;    10  Q.K2  (a),  Kt.R4 ; 

11  KKt-Q2,  Kt.B4. 

(a>  10  P-B3,  0-0;  11  QKt-Q2,  KtxKt;  12  QxKt,  Kt-R4;  13B.B2,.Kt.B5; 
l4Q.Q3,P-KKt3  =  . 

(6)  If  9  . . .  B-K2 ;  10  B-B2,  Kt.B4 ;  11  Kt-Q4,  &c.  (Steinitz) :  or  10  R-Ksq,  0-0 ; 
11  Kt.Q4,  Q-Ksq  (Moscow v.  Petersburg):  if  11  . . ,  Q-Q2  ? ;  12  Kt x B,  Q or P x Kt ; 
13  R X  Kt + .    (Tarrasch.) 

(7)  If7KtxP(Friess),KtxKt;   8PxKt,P.Q4;   9PxP enpas,  BxP,  &c. 

(8)  If  7  ...  Kt-R4;  8  Q-Ksq.  If  7  ..,  Kt.K2;  8  B.Kt3,  P.Q3;  9  R-Ksq, 
Kt,QB4,  &c. 

(9)  Mr.  Ranken prefers  7  QP x  Kt,  to stop the advance of Black's QP. 

(10)  IPritz V.  Bardeleben.    P-Q4  and Kt x  KP are in Black's favour. 

(11)  The Handbuch gives the following variation  :--6  . . ,  Kt-B3 ;  7  P-Q4,  P-K5 ; 
6  P-Q5,  P.QKt4;  9  B-Kt3,  Kt-QR4;  10  Kt.B3,  KtxB;  11  KtxP,  KtxKt; 
12RxKtch,B-K2;  13P-Q6,PxP;  14  B.Kt5,  P-B3 ;  ISBxP.PxB;  16Kt.R4, 
6.Kt2 1 = .    See note  12,  p.  134. 

(12)  If9R-P,  B.Q3;   10  R-Ksq.  0-0,  Ac. 

(13)  If  10  P-QB3,  0-0 ;    11  P^KB4.  P-BS,  &c. 

(14)  llKt.QB3,P.B3;  12  Kt-B3,  R-Ksq;  13  Kt-K2,  Kt-Beq.    (Blak«  v.  Vincent.] 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table   66.— RUY LOPEZ'    KNIGHT'S GAME. 

1P.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt-KB8,   Kt-QBS;    8  BKt6 
21  22  23  24  2£ 

181 

10 

11 

12 

P-QR3 
B-R4 

KKt-K2 

P-Q4       (1) 
PxP KtxP     (2) 
KtxKt QxKt P-QKt4 
B-Kt3 

P-Q3 
P-QB3 

B-K3 
0-0 

(3) 

Kt-B3 
Q-Qsq  -h KKt-K2 
P-Q4       (4) 

PxP KtxP KtxKt QxKt P-QB3 
B-R4 

P-Q4 
Kt-B3 

B-K3 
B-K3-f 

(5) 

Kt-B3 
P-Q3 

(6) 

B-B4 
P-B3 

(7) 

Q-K2 
0-0 

(8) 

0-0 
^-Q4 

b-Kt3 
BxKt pPxB KtxP P-Q3       (9) 
KtxQBP QxP Kt-Kt4 

P-B4 
Kt-B2- 

B-R3--(10) 

B-Kt5 

KQ3 

BxQKt PxB FxP PxP Q-R4 

P-KR3 

B-R4-B-Kt2-t>-08'    (li) 
P-B3 

P.KKt3(12) 
PQ4 

b:q2        ' 

qKt-Q2 
B^Kt2         ' 
PxP QKtxP Kt X  Kt PxKt        ' 
Q-K2 
0^0 

P.B3  or B-Q3— 

U)  5  0-0  is also a  good continuation :  if  5  P-BS,  P-Q4 1 :  if  6  Kt-fi3,  Kt-Kt3. 
(C.  E.  R.) 

(2)  Martinez against Steinitz played  6  P-B3 — a venturesome sacrifice. 

(3)  If  10  B-B2,  P-Q4  I  (Steinitz). 

(4)  4  P-B3,  P-Q3;  5  P-Q4.  B-Q2 ;  6  0-0  (B-QB4.  Steinitz),  Kt-Kt3;  7  Kt-KtS, 
P-KR3.  8KtxP,  KxKt,  9  Boh.  K-K2  ,  10  Q-R5,  Q-Ksq  (a)  ,  .11  Q-Kt6ch,  PxQ  ; 
12  B X  P mate  (Zukertort v.  Anderssen).  If  (a)  10  . . ,  B-Ksq ;  11  B-Kt5cb,  PxB; 
12  Q X  Pch,  K-Q2;    13  Q-B6ch and mates next move. 

(5)  6  . .,  P-QR3  transposes into Col.  21 .     Steinitz prefers  6  . .,  Kt-B3. 

(6)  If  4  Q-K2,  B-B4  ,    5  B x  Kt  (or O-O),  QP x  B  ,    6  Ktx P,  Q-Q5,  &c. 

(7)  This Col.  is Steinitz v.  Rosenthal.     Noa against Englisch played  5  Kt-B3. 

(8)  Or  5  ...  0-0  .  6  B X  Kt  (6).  KtP x  B;  7  Kt x  P,  P-Q4  1 ,  8  Kt x  QBP,  Q-Ksq  ; 
9  Kt-Q4,  P X P-f  {Handbuch):  if  8  P'x P,  Q x P  or Q-Ksq  .  9  0-0,  aiid  10  P-Q4-f 
(Steinitz). 

(6)  Neumann v.  Anderssen played  6  0-0,  P-Q3  (P-Q4I);  7  BxKt,  PxB; 
8P-Q4,  B-Kt3;  9  B-Kt5.  P-KR3  .  10B-R4,  P-Kt4  ;  11  Ktx KtP,  PxKt;  12BxP. 
K-Kt2,  &c.    White won. 

(9)  9..,  KtxP,    10R-K8q,"P-KB4,    11  Kt-Q2-|-. 

(10)  13  R-Ksq,  Q.R6  .    14  P-B3,  P-Q4  =. 

(11)  4  . .,  B.Q3,    5  P-B3,  &c.     See Col,  41. 

(12)  Or  6   ..,  B-Q2;    6  QKt-Q2,  P-KKtS-;     7  B.R4,  B-Kt2;     8  Kt-Bsq,  0-0 
9  Kt.K3  (Steinitz).    See Cols.  7  and  8. 

182  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  67.— RUY LOPEZ'  KNIGHT'S GAME. 

MlP.K4,  P-K4;    2  Kt-KBS,   Kt.(iB3;    SB-KtS,  Kt-B3 

26  27  28  29  80 

P.QS P-Q4 

P.Q3  Kt-K2  PxP      (5)  KtxQP Kt-B3  Kt-B3     (2)    0-0  KtxKt P-KKtS Kt-Kt3  B-K2  FxKt P-KR3  0-0         (3)     P-K5  QxP    (10) 

B-Kt2  P-B3  Kt-K5  P.B3 

B-K3  B-R4       (4)     KtxPt R-Ksq B-QB4 

^    B.Q2  P-Q3  0-0         (6)  Kt-B4     (8)    FqT         ' 

Q-Q2  B-Kt3      —    Kt-B5 !  KtxP PxP 

®    P-KR3  B-K3orK2-    P-Q4  KtxKt Kt"xP 

0-0    —  KtxBch QxKt Kt-BS^- 

^    p.Kt4— (1)  KtxKt  0-0 

P-KB3    (7)  B-K3--  (9) 

P^Q53  P-Q4— 
PxKt    -^ 
**                                                Q-Kt8ch— 

10 

I 

(1)  Zijkertort's correction of a  game witlh Rosenthal. 

(2)  This Col.  is Mortimer's variation.  If  5  iCt x  P,  P-QB3  wins a  piece for two Pawns by.  Q-Rdch.    If  6  B-QB4,  P-Q3 ;  6  Kt-KKt5,  P-Q4 ;  7  P x  P,  QKt x  P  (Blake). 

(3)  6  P-KR4,  P-KR4 ;    7  B.QB4,  B-K2 ;    8  Kt-KKtS.  0-0 ;   9  Kt-Q5 1  (Blake). 

(4)  Or7.B.QB4,  B-K2(Zukertort). 

(6)  4  ...KtxKP;  5  P-Q5,'Kt-Q3;  6BxKt,KtPxB;  7PxP,P-K6;  8Kt-Q4, 
PxP;  9KtxP,  Q-Q2  =  :  5  0-0,B-K2;  6PxP,P-Q4;  7P.B4,P.QR3;  SBxKtch^ 
^  X B ;    9  Q-B2,  0-0 ;    10  Kt-Q4  (Tschigorin v.  Gunsberg). 

(6)  7  ..,  KtxKt;»  8  QxKt,  Kt-B4;  9  P.KB4,  P-QKt3;  10  P-B5,  Kt-Kt6l; 
11  Q-K4(a)/KtxR;    12  P-B6  1,  B-B4ch:.  13  K-Rsq,  R-QKtsq ;   14  P-K6,  R-Ktsq; 

15  Q X  P,  R-Bsq  ;    16  P x  BPch,  R x  P ;    17  R-Ksqch.  B.K2 ;    18  Q-KtSch,  R-Bsq ; 
19  P-B7  mate  (Bird v.  Steinitz).^ 

(a)    llQ-KKt4,  KtxR;  l^QxP,  R-Bsq;    13  P-B6,  Boh;    14  K-Rsq,  KtxP; 

16  P-K6,  Kt-Q5 ;    16  P x  BPch,  &c.    (Bird y.  De Vere.) 

<7)  Or  10  P-QB3 1  (0.  E.^  R^    This Col.  is Rosenthal v.  Zukertort. 
(8)  Or7'Kt.Kt4. 

(9>  10  Kt-B3,  Kt-K8 ;    II Q-K4,  P-Q3 ;  12  B.Q3,  P-KKt3 ;  13  B.R6.    (Mackenzie V,  Winatver.) 

(in)   Or  6  P-K5,  P-B3 ;   7  0-0,  (if)  P x  B ;  ^  B-Kt5,  &c.  f 

1 

Table  68.— RUY LOPEZ KNIGHT'S GAME. 

I P.K4,   P-K4;    2  KtKB3,   Kt-QB3;    BB-KtS.   Kt-BS 
4  00.   Kt X  P   (1). 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
U 

81 
P-Q4 

Kt-Q3     (2) 

BxKt     (3) 

QPxB    (4) 

PxP KtB4 

QxQch KxQ Kt B3 

P.KR3 

BB4 

B.K3 

QR-Qsqcb" 

KBsq       ~ 

Mmkm^m m 

il i  III i  ■  t il i 

mm.  ^  mm mm  ^  m 

82 

38 

84 
RKsq B-K2 
RKsq KtQ3 
BxKt     (5) 
QPxB PxP   — 
Kt-B4  — 

QK2 

(6) 

KtQ3 
BxKt KtPxB  (7) 
PxP Kt.Kt2 
KtB3 

(8) 

KtB4 
Kt.Q4 

0-0 
RKsq 

(9) 
(10) 

Kt-K3 
KtB5 

P-B3 
B-Q2 

PxP QxP 

(H) 

B.B3 
QKt3-Kt Q3 
KtxP 

(12) 
(18) 

KtxKt RxKtch BK2 
B-R4 

(14) 

0-0 
BKt3 

BB3 
R-Ksq Kt-H4 
PQB3 

P-Q4 
PQ4 

P-KKt3 

85 

BK2 
B-Q3 

(15) 

0-0 

Kt QB3(16) 

KtxKt RxKt PQB3 

P-QKt3 

KtKsq  (17) 

BKt2 

P-Q4 
QB3 

BB3 
R.K2 

Kt-B2 
B R3    — 
RKsq-PQ4-134  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Notes to Table  68. 

(!•)  4  . . ,  P-QI13 ;  6  B X  Kt,  QP X  B  ;  6  Kt x  P,  and Black dare not f  ake the KP on account of  7  R-Ksq.  (B.  C M.  1885,  p.  18.)  For  4  *..,  P-Q3  see Col.  1.  with notes  3  and  4. 

(2)  5  ..,  P-Qtl3;  6  BxKt,  QPxB;  7  R-Ksq  (C.  E.  R.) :  or  6  B-Q3,  P.Q4; 
7  P-B4  (Zukertort). 

(3)  6PxP.  KtxB;  7  P-QR4,  KKt-Q5:   8  KtxKt,  KtxKt;  9QxKt.B-K2  =  . 

(4)  6  . . ,  KtP X  B ;  7  P x  P,  Kt-Kt2 ;  8  R-Ksq,  B-K2 ;  9  Kt-Q4,  0-0 ;  10  Kt-QB3, 
Kt-B4;    11B-K3.  &c.   (Gossip). 

(5)  .White may play  7  P x iP,  (if)  Ktx B ;    8  P-B4,  &c.  (Mortimer). 

(6)  6  P-Q5,  Kt-Q3;  7  B-K2  (a),  P.K5;  8  PxKt,  PxKt;  9  PxPch,  BxP; 
lOBxP,  0-0  =  .    If6PxP,  P-Q4'. 

(a)  7  P X  Kt soon equalises.  If  7  B x  Kt  (c),  QP x  B ;  8  P x  P  (6),  P-KB3  -h  (Tschigo. 
rin V.  Zukertort). 

b)  If  8  Kt X  P,  P X  P ;   9  Q X  P,  B-K3  followed by  0-0  is Black's best development ertort). 

(c)  7Kt-B3,  Kt-Ktsq;  8  B-Q3,  P-KB3?;  9  Kt.KR4,  Kt-B2 ;  10  Q.Kt4,  P.KKt3 ; 
11  P.Q6!,  BxP;  12  P-B4f,  Bch ;  13  K-Rsq,  P-Q4;  14  Q-K2,  P-K5 ;  15  BxP, 
PxB;  16KtxP,  B-K2;  17  R-Qsq!,  B-Q2;  in P.B5!  Kt.K4;  19PxP,  PxP; 
SOKtxPch,  K.B2  (if  20  ..,BxKt;  21  KtxP);  21  KtxB,  QKtxKt;  22  Kt-B3 
^Showalter v.  Lipscbiitz). 

(Zuk 

(7)  7..,QPxB;   8PxP,Kt-B4;  9R.Qsq,B.Q2;  10P-K6,PxP;  llKt-K54-. 

(8)  9  Kt.Q4,  0-0 ;  10  R-Qsq,  Q-Ksq;  11  Kt.QB3,  P-B3  =  :  if  11  R-Ksq,  Kt-B4 
(B.B4t);    12Kt-B5,  Kt-K3;    13  Q-Kt4,  &c. 

(9)  If  10  . . ,  B-R3 ;  11  Q-Kt4.    This Col.  was played Zukertort v.  Minckwitz. 

(10)  Or  11  R-Qsq  (threatening KtxPj. 

(11)  14  Ktx Bch I  (C.E.R.) 

(12)  5  . .,  Kt-B3  may leg-d into the variation given in Note  11,  p.  130.  Or White may play  6  BxKt,  QP5<B;  7  RxPch,  B-K2;  8  Q-Ksq,  leaving K2  open for the Rook if attacked by Kt at Kt5  or Q2.  The Handbicch continues  8  Kt-Q2  by Kt-Bsq, 
thence to K3. 

(13)  6  BxKt,  QPxB;  7  KtxP,  B-K2;  8  P-Q3,  0-0  =  .  A game Brown v. 
Coolingruns:— 6Kt-B3,  KtxB;  7KtxP,B-K2;  8Kt-Q5,  KtxKt;  9RxKt,0-0; 
10  Kt X  Bch,  K-Rsq ;  11 Q-R5,  P-KKt3  (to stop  11  . . ,  Q.x Pch);  12  Q-R6  (threatening R-R5)-f. 

(14)  8  P-Q4,  Kt X  B 1  (not P-KB3  on account of R-Ksq) ;  9  R x  Kt,  P-Q4.  Steinitz tried  8  B-Bsq  {B.  C.  M.  188G,  p.  63).  also  8  Kt-B3,  0-0  (if  8  ..,  KtxB;  9  Kt.Q5); 
9  B.Q3,  B-B3;    10  R-K3,  P-KKt3;    11  P-QKt3. 

(15)  7  BxKt,  QPxB;    8  Q-K2.     (Steinita.) 

(16)  8  Q B5.  P.B4 ;  9  pa.-QB3,  Kt x  Kt ;  10  R x  Kt,  P^KIttS.  Mr.  Ranken notes that the sally of the Queen is prcmeture. 

(17)  10  . . ,  B-Ksq ;  11  B-R3.  This Col-  and the variations are taken from the last mfttch betwec^n'^Iessrs.  Steinitz and Zukertort. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

135^ 

Table  69.— RUY LOPEZ'    KNIGHT'S GAME. 

K4,  P.K4;    2  Kt-KES,  Kt-QB8;    3  B-KtS 

86 

87 

88 

89 

40 

8 

10 

11 

Kt-Q5 
KtxKt PxKt P-Q3 

P-QB3 
B-QB4 

(1) 

(2) 

Kt-B3 
0-0 

(8) 

P-Q4 
PxP KtxP Kt-Q2 

(4) 

B-K8 
Kt-K4  - 

_ 

0-0 

P-KR4    (5) 
P-Q3       (6) 

P-QB3 
B-QB4 

B-B4 
P-B4 

P-Q4 
PxP PxP B-Kt5ch B.K2    —         K-Bsq      — 

B-B4 

KtxKtch QxKt Q-B3 

Q-QKt3 

B-B4 

0-0 

P-Q3 
Kt-B3 

P-B3 
P-Q3 

Kt-K2 
B-K3-f B.R4       (7) 

KtxKtch(8j QxKt B-B4 

QKKt8 

Q-B3 

Kt-B8 

FB3 

P-Q3 

Kt7K2 

B-K3 

FKt3 

0-0 

P1CR3 

P-KB4  + 

Q-B3 
P-B3 

(9) 

P-QR3 
BxKt  (10) 

QxB 
0-0 

QxP KtxP 

(11 

B-K2 
R-Ksq Q^KB4 
P-Q4 

P-Q3 
Kt^BS  — 
B.K8   — 

(1)  If  5  . . ,  B.B4 ;    6  Q-R5,  Q.K2 ;    7  B-Kt5,  B-Kt5ch ;    8  P-BS,  PxP;  9  B x  Q I PxPdisch;    10  BxB,  PxR  (Q) ;    11  Q-QB5,  Q x Ktch ;    12  K-K2-i-  (Barbier). 

(2)  6  B-R4,  Kt-B3 ;    7  0-0,  (if)  P-Q4 ;    8  P-K5,  &c. 

(3)  Anderssen V.  Blackburae.    Or  7  B-KKt5,  (if )  Qch :    8  B-Q2.    Or7Q-K2I 

(4)  Or  9  R-Ksqch I,  B-K2  (if B-KS  ;    10  Q-Kt4);    10  Q-K2,  B-KS ;    11  P.KB4^ 
(C.  E.  B.) 

(5)  Mr.  Bird's variation, stopping Q-R5.     Or  6  ..,  P-QB3;    6  B-R4  (if  6  B-B4; 
•  Kt-B3;  7Q-K2),  Kt-K2;  7  P-Q3,  P-Q3,&c.:    if6..,Kt-B3;  7  R-Ksq I  B-K2  or B4 ;. 

8P-K5  +  . 

(6)  Or  6  B-B4,  B-B4.    Or  6  P.K5.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(7)  4  Kt X  P,  Kt x  B ;    5  Kt x  BP,  K x  Kt ;    6  Q-R5ch.    (Mackenzie.) 

(8)  4  . . ,  B-B4 ;    5  F-B3,  Kt x  Ktch ;    6  Q x  Kt.    (Mackenzie v.  Bird.) 

(9)  Or  4  Kt.-B3  (Salvioli), 

(10)  The EandbiJch continuftfeion,    I think  5  B-R4  is better.    (C.  E.  R») 
(U)  I prefer  7  P-Q4.    (C.  E.  E.) 

t 

136  THE KINGS KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 

18 

1 

Table  70.- RUY LOPEZ'    KNIGHT'S GAME. 

1   P K4,  F-K4;     2   Kt-KB3,    Kt .  Q B  8  ;     8    B-KtS, 

41  42                    4B                    44                    45 

B^^3  FB4                                      P-KKt3 

P-B8  P-Q3       (2)     PxP P-Q4 

P-QR3  Kt-B3     (8) 

B-R4!  0-0 

P-QKt4  BB4 

B-Kt3  Kt-B3 

Kt-B3  P-Q3 

00  BKt5  

KtxP!  P.KR3  KtR3  0-0  P-QB3 

RKsq BxKKt PKfet4  0-0     —(9)  B-R4 

KtB3  QxB P-KKt3  Kt-K2—  Kt B3 

P-Q4  Kt-Q5  Kt QB3  P-K6 

P-K6  Q.B2  PxP KKt-Q4 

B-Kt5  (1)     P-QKt4  PxP Kt-B3 

B-K2  B-Kt3  KtxP  '  Kt-Kt8 

BxKt P-QR4  QR5ch B-Kt3 — 

BxB P-QR4  Q.B2  P-Q4    — 

RxPch Kt-Q2  +        QxQ 

^^     Kt-K2  KxQ P-Q5    —  KKt-K2 

P-Q3    - 

(1)  Or  10  Kt-Kt6.  0-0  .    11  KtxXP,  &c.     (C.  E.  R.). 

(2)  If  4  Q-K2,  PxP;  5  BxKt,  QPxB;  6  QxP,  B-Q3 ;  7  KtxP,  Kt.B3 ; 
8  Q-K2,  0-0  with the best position.  White may also play  4  0-01  or  4  Kt-B3, 
PxP;  5QKtxP.  P.Q4,  6  Kt-B3  or KtS,  or Kt x  P-h.  Or  4  P-Q4,  PxQP  (a) ; 
6  Kt X  P=  :     Steinitz prefers the chances springing from  5  P-K5  I. 

(a)    4  ...PxKP;  5  BxKt.  QPxB,    6KtxP.  Kt^B3;    7  0-0,  &p. 

(3)  Salvioli gives  4  . . ,  P-Q3  ,    5  Kt-B3,  Kt-B3  ;    6  P-Kt5,  B-K2  ;    7  0-0. 

(4)  Or6  ...  KtPxBI;  7  Kt-Q4,  P.B4  ;  8  Kt-KtS.  P-Q4  ;  9  P-Kt4,  P-KR4, 
&c.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(5.)  4  P-QB3,  B-Kt2  ;  5  P-Q4.  P x  P ;  6  P x  P,  QKt-K2  ;  7  0-0,  Kt-B3  (Rees). 
Or  4  P-Q3.     (See p.  44.  Col.  8.) 

(6.)  Or4..,KtxP;  5KtxKt,PxKt;  GQxP.Q-BS;  'ZP-KS,  Q-Kh3  =  .  (C.E.R.) 

(7)  6  BxKt,  QPxB;    6  QxP,  QxQ;    7KtxQ.    (Edinburgh v.  Glasgow.) 

(8)  6  ..,ia?:t-K2?.    7P-QB3,  0-0;    8  0-0-1-. 
.     (9)  Or  8  Kt or BxKt. 

THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPExNING.  187 

SECTION XVI. 

THE FOUR KNIGHTS'    GAME. 
1  P-K4,  P.K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  KtQB3 ;    3  Kt-BS.  Kt-BS. 

THE Pour Knights'  Game is of comparatively recent*  growth,  not having been adopted in any important match before the Paris Tourney in  1878.  Although not yielding such a  cramping attack to the first player as its congener the Ruy Lopez,  it provides him with a  safe and excellent game,  and there are pitfalls which'  need care on the part of the defence to elude.  These are too numerous to be pointed out separately, 
and not sufficiently profound to  .make it desirable that much space should be devoted to that purpose.  The best course for the student is to examine carefully for himself the motive which prompts .  every move. 
Mr,  Potter's minor principles will be found useful in this opening.  One of its chief features is the study and pursuit of minute advantages.  The weighing of these,  discriminating between small and lesser evils,  and selecting the one in order to avoid the other,  with due regard to their constantly fluctuating values,  so as to secure a  superior position in the end-game,  is the task the player sets himself. 

In its soundest forms the Four Knights'  Game is one of the dullest of' the open games.  It is probably for this reason that its popularity has of late somewhat declined.  The forms of attack introduced by Mr. 
Blackburne and Dr.  Flechsig are lively enough,  but the former can hardly be considered reliable for players lacking Mr.  Blackburne's ingenuity,  and both may be easily avoided.  The characteristic positions in this opening can be reached by various transpositions in the Buy Lopez,  Vienna,  and Petroff'  debuts.  By  4  P-Q4  the first player may bring about a  variation of the Scotch Game. 

IS^ 

THE KING'S KNIGIIT'S OPENING- 

Table TI.^THE FOUR KNIOH'^S:  OAMB. 

rP.K4,  F-K4;     2  Kt- K B  3  .  Kt-QJ^'B ;     3  Kt-B  3.  Kt  •  BS; 
4  B.Kt5,  B-Kt5;    5  Q- 0,  0 -0  (1),;    6  Kt*-Q5  (2).  B  •  B.4. 

'wm. 

gtBi»t||t 

^m m 

S til S  III III S  III d 

7     ^-Q^       (9) 

10 

11 

12 

Id 

14 

Kt X  Kt PxB Kt.li3 
BxKt QPxB QxQ RxQ B-Kt5 

(4) 

R-Ksq BxKt— 
PxB  — (5) 

PxP B-Kt5 

R-Ksq      (G) 
R-Ksq      (7) 
Kt-K4      (8) 
KKtxKt RxKt P^KB4 
RXB  ' 

KtxKtch(9> 
Q X  Kfc^ 
PxR QxP P.K5 
P-QB3  (10) 

KtxQP KKtxKt PxKt B-Kt5 

R-Ksq Q-B3 

B-K2 

KtxB QxKt KR-Ksq Q-K4 

BxKt- 

PxB BxKt B-Kt5 

R-Ksq Kt X  Ktch PxKt B-R6 

K-Rsq P-B3 

B-Kt3 
B-B4-}- 

BxP KtxB QKtxKt(ll) 

B-Kt5 

KtxB PKB4 

P-Q3     (12) 

PxP PxP RxKt P-B3 
R-Kt6 

(13) 

RPxR(14) 
BxQ  + 

Notes TO Table  71. 

1)  5  ..,  BxKt is contrary to sound principles e.g.:— 5  ..,  BxKt;  6  QPxB, 
P-Q3 ;    7  B X  Ktch,  P x  B  ;    8  B-Kt5,  P-KES.;    9  B x  Kt,  Q x  B and White has a  Kt' 

|_g for a  B,  with doubled Pawns on both sides. 
B       (2) '  Or  6  P-Q3,  P.Q3 ;    7  B-Kt^r BxKt;    8  P x  B,  Kt-K2  or B.Q2  = . 
(3)  A mode ol attack introduced by Mr.  Blackburne.    White may play  7  P-B3 1. 
See Col.  10. 

(4)  Steihitz recommends  9  Q-Q3,  Q-K2;    10  B-K3,  P-Q3 ;    11  Kt-Q2  +  . 

(5)  From a  match game Zukertort v.  Rosenthal. 

(6)  See Diagram.  If8.;,P-Q3;  9Q-Q3,  B-K3;  10  B x  QKt,  PxB;  II KtxKtch, 
PxXt;  12  B-R6.  R-Ksq;  13  KtxP,  &c. :  if  9  Q-Q2,  Black can play KtxPI. 
(G.  E.  R.) 

(7).  Proposed as best by Messrs.  Rosenthal and Zukertort. 

(8i'  If  9  ...  P-Q3?;  10Q-Q2. 

(9)   If  12  P X  R then Kt-Ksq ! 

(10  If  14  ..,  P-Q4-.,  Ife PxP en pas,  B-KKt5 ;  16  P-Q7,  R-KBsq  (if BxQ; 
17  R-KSch,  B-Bsq;  IS'K x  R,  &c.) ;  17  Q-Q3.  P-QB3 1  The Col.  is continued after 
14  . , .  P-QB3  by.  15  B-Q3.  P-Q4  ;    16  P x  P en pas,  B-KKt5  = . 

(11)  Black may at least equalise by  8  . . ,  KKt x  Kt. 

(12)  Or  10  . . ,  P-B3 1  11  Kt X  Ktch,  P x  Kt ;  12  B-R6,  P-Q4 1 ;  13  P-B5,  K-Rsq ; 
14  Q-R5,  R-KKtsq  (see diagram);  15  R-B3  (a)i P  x P ;  16  R-KR3,  Kt-Q5 ;  17  R-QBsq 
(if either  17  B--K3,  P-B3  or R-Qsq  ;  18  B x  P),  Kt-B6ch  ;  18  K-Rsq,  R-Kt4 ; 
19'BxR  (if  19QxP,  20  Bx P).  Kt x  B+ :  or White may play  11  Px P,  PxKt; 
12RxKt,  &c. 

f'rt;  15  QR-Qsq,  Kt-Q3  ;  16  P x  P  (if  16  R-Q3,  Kt x  KP ;  17  R-KR3,  R-Kt4,  Ac), 
PxP;  17  RxP,  Q-Kt3ch;  13  K-Rsq,  Q-B3  ;  19  R-Q2,  Q-K5  +  .  If  15  KR-Ksq Black still plays Kt-Q3.     (Ranken.) 

(13)  He^ cannot take the Rook,  but  12  . ,,  Q-Q2  looks safe enougl;i. 

(14)  If the Black Queen is moved White wins by Kt-B6ch,  and Q-R5 ;  and il 
13  . . ,  P-B3 ;    14  B X  P,  R x  B ;  .15  Kt x  Rch and wins. 

(Col.   2.) 

I mi  *  iM  *  »  *  §m  * 

•«  mm A  Wi^'i-        W&> 

WM Iw^ffiSffl^P 

(Note  12.) 

If  4  ■     MiWi- 

^■tlli After White's  8th move. 

Aiter T31aclx's  14th mpve,. 

«140  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S OPENING. 

Table  72.— THE FOUR KNIGHTS'    GAME. 

IP.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt-KB8,   Kt-QB8;    8  Kt-B3,  Kt- BS  ; 
4  B-Kt5,   B-Kt6. 

6                    7  S                    9                   10 

6     Q:Q Kt.Q5  

0-0  KtxKt B.B4 

6  ^^-Qg PxKt P-B3     (10) 
KtxKt BlC2l ^t^QS     (8)  KtxP 

7  PxKt P-Q8  KtxKt PQ4 

Kt-Q5     (1)  F¥6  piQs PxKt PxP KtxKt   (2)  P^Kt Kt-K3     (6)  Q-Kt4!(dia.)  PxP PxKt PxKt     (3)  Kt-Q5  QJ<2cli   (9)  QKtxP(ll. 

Q-Kt4  QxP B-B4 K-Qsq KtxKt 

^     B.B4  KtPxP  (4)  p:B3  Q-B3  P-QB3 

PQ3  B-R4  P.B3  R-Ksqoh  00 

P-QB3  B-Kt2      (5)  KtxKtch K-Qpq PxKt! 

B-B4  P.U3  QxKt RK4  Kt-B5 

Q-B8  13-B4  B^K3  B-B4  0-0 

R-Ksq P-Q4  B-Kt3  P-Q3  QxP 

"     P-Q3  Bl(t3  Q:Q2  P-KR3  R-Ksq   (12) 

Q-Kt5  —  BKt3  —  Q.K2  B-KB4+  B-Q3 

—  P-Q4    —  piQi Q-B3 

10 
11 

18 
14 

PxP BxKt PxP       (7)  R-K4     (13) 

(1)  See dia.  p.  141.  If  7  . . ,  Kt-K2 ;  8  Kt x  P^  K't x  P ;  9  P.QB3  with a  slightly better game. 

(2>  If,  as suggested ingeniously by Mr.  Steinitz,  8  KtxP,  KtxB;  9  P-QR4. 
Kt.Q5;  10  P-QB3,  then B-B4  ;  11  Px Kt  (if  11  P-QKt4  ra^,  B-Q3  ;  12  P x  Kt,  B  >^  P), 
BxP;  12  Kt-B3,  Q-B3 ;  and we prefer Black's game,  (a)  11  Kt-Q3,  .P-Q3; 
12  P.QKt4,  (if  12  Kt X  B,  P X  Kt ;    13  P x  Kt)  B-KB4  + . 

(3)  8.»,  QPxP;    9B.K2,  PxKt;    10  B x  P  (Steinitz). 

(4)  If  9  ...  QPxP;  10B-k2!  (C.  E.  R.),  B-Q3;  11  P-B3,  P-QB4 ;  12R-Qsq: 
If  10  B.B4,  BxP;    11  R-Qsq,  Q-R5  + :    (Fraser.) 

(5)  igjom a  game Gunsbel-g v.  Ranken in the Vizayanagaram Tournament.  If 
11  Q-QKt3,  P-QR4 ;    12  P-QB3,  B-B4  ;    if now  13  Q x  B,  B-Kt3  and wins. 

(6)  OrSBxKt,  PxB;  9Kt.K3,  P.B4;  10  P.QKt3,  Kt-Ksq ;  U B.Kt2,  P-'34 ; 
W PxP,  BxP;    13Kt.Q2+. 

IHE KING'S KNIGHTS OPENING. 

141^ 

^7)  Zukertort v.  Rosenthal. 

(8)  Or  6  . . ,  P-K5 1 ;    7  P x  Kt,  QP x  P ;    8  B-K2  (B,  C.  M.,  Vol.  10,  p.  25). 

(|9)  See diagram below.  If  8  . . ,  Q-B3 ;  9  0-0  (or  9  P.KB4  to prevent Q-Klch), 
B-K2  (if  0-0  ;  10  B X  Pi;  10  R-Ksq,  P-QR3  ;  11  P-Q6  +  .  -Steinitz suggests  9  . . , 
P-B3  ;  10  R-Ksqch,  K-Qsq  ,11  B.B4,  P-Q3  ;  12  Q-Kt3,  B-KB4  ;  13  P-QB3,  B-B4  =  . 
Or8..,0-0;    90-0,B-B4;    10P-Q6,  BxP;.  11  QxQP,  B.K2='.    ( SchaChzeitung ), 

(10)  Introduced by Dr.  Flechsig.at the Liepzig Congress,  1877.  Steinitz gives 
6P-Q3,  KtxKt;    7PxKt.  Kt-Q5;    8KtxKt.  BxKt:    9  P-QB3.  B.B4!,  &c. 

(11)  If  8  ..,  B-Kt5ch;  9  K-Bsq,  B-K2 ! ;  10  B.KB4,  Kt-Q3 ;  11  B.Q3,  0-0; 
12P-KR4-f.  'If  10  ...P-Q3;  llKtxB.QxKt;  12  P-Q5,  P-QR3 ;  (if)  13  Q-R4, 
Kt-B4l';   UPxKt.  &c. 

(12)  If  12  . . .  Q-Kt3 ;    13QxKt,QxB;    14B.R6+. 

(13)  Continued  15  Q-B4,  P.Q4  j  16  BxP,  QxKt:  17QxB.  RxB==.  If 
16  Kt-R6ch,  PxKt;  16  Q-Q3,  P.Q3  ;  17  BxPch  (if B-Q2,  then B.B4),  K-Bsqj 
18  B.Q2,  Q.R5  = .    (Ranken.) 

(CoL  6.) 

(Gol.  9.) 

%&. 

i«i«#»    i» 

ill  *  iM,  2  ^.  1  fM.  * 

After Black's  7th move. 

After White's  8th move. 

H2  THE KING'S KNIGHT'S'  OPENING. 

Tabl8.73.-^THE four KNIGHTSV GAME* 

1P.K4.   P-Ki.;    ^Ki.KBS,   Kt.QB3;    8  Kt.B3 .  Kt-BS ; 

4   B-Kt5. 

11  12  13  14  15 

10 
11 
12 

U B.B4       (1)  P-QR3 

KtxP OrQ BxKt    (8) 

KtxKt   (2)  P-Q3  (5)    QPxB P-Q4   (dia.)  PQ4  KtxP B-Q3!     (3)  PxP KtxP     (9) 

P-B4       (4)  KtxP KtxKt Kt-B3 !  B-Q2  Q-Q5 

P-K5  KtxKt  (6)    0-0 

B-Kt5  PxKt QxKKt PxKt B-Q3  R-Ksq  (10) 

QxP       +0-0  B-K3     (11) 

Kt-R4  P-Q4 

Blit3  WQi Q^KBi KtxB B-Kt5    (12)  B-Kt5 

RPxKt K-Q2!(13)  piRs b:Q3 

P-KR4  Q-Q2  Q.Q3  P-KKt4 

Q.K2  R-Ksq   (14)  K-Q2     (16)  Q-Q4     (17) 

R-Ksq     (7)    PQKt3!  B-R4  Q-Q2 

K-Bsq ItKiq"  0-0 

P-QB4  P.QB4  P-QB4 

Q-Q2  K-Bsq QxBP QR-Qsq QR-Qsq-t-  Kt-B6cU 

^^  B-KB4(15)  K-Rsq   (18) 

(1)  If4  ..,P-Q3;  5P.Q4,B.Q2;  6  BxKt,  BxB?  7  Q-Q3,  PxP;  8  KtxP-f : 
or White may play  6  B-Kt5,  B-K2  ;    7  P-Q5,  ICt-QKtsq ;    8  B-QB4  +  . 

(2)  Black may safely play  5  . . ,  Q-K2.  If however  5' . . ,.  B x  Pch  [  then  6  K x  B, 
Kt X  Kt ;    7  P-Q4  with the better  ^ame. 

(3V Or  6  . . ,  B.Kt5  ;  7  P x  Kt,  Kt x  P ;  8  Q-Q4  (he may also play Q-Kt4),  Kt x  Kt ; 
9PxKt,  B-K2;    10  P-K6,  B-B3  =  . 

(4)  Weak before Castling  ^Zukertort).  If  7  P x  Kt,  B x  P ;  8  0-0:  or  8  Kt-K2, 
Q.K2,  and may win a  Pawn;  but9  B-Q31.  KtxP;.10  0-0,  P-Q4;  11  R-Ksq,  0-0; 
12  Kt-B4,  R-Qsq ;   13  Q-K2,  and Wljit§  will at least recover the Pawn.  \St«iuit2.) 

(5)  5...G-0;    6KtxP(or6P-Q3H KtxKt;   7  P-Q4,  B-Q3  ;  8  P-B4  I,  Kt-B3^ 
P.K5,  B-K2 ;    10  P-Q5+  :     if  6  . . ,  R-Ksq ;   7  Kt x  Kt,  QP x  Kt ,  8  B-B4,  P.QKtil; 

9  B-K2.  KtxP;    10  KtxKt,  RxKt;    11  B-BS,  R-K3;    12  P.Q31+.     {B.  C i^,, 
Vol.  3,  p.  13.)    Compare Col.  15,  page  128. 

■     (6)  Or  8  Kt-B5,  Q-0 ;   9  B-KKt5,  B x  Kt ;    10  P x  B  +  ^    (Paulsen v.  Zukertort.) 

^7)  Schwarz v.  Mackenzie  (Vienna  1882)  won by the former. 

(8)  The variations consequent on this rnove are JDy Mr.  Rariken,  from the Chess Player's Chronicle,  December,  1879.    For  5  B.R4  see the  "  Ruy Lopez'  Kts Game." 

(9)  Mr.  Wayte has shown this is the only way by which Black can recover his Pawn.     If  6  ..,  B-QKt5;    7  0-0,  BxKt;    8  KtPxB,  Q.K2;.    9  P.Q4,  KtxP; 

10  R-Ksq,  Kt X  QBP ;    1 1  Q-Q2 + . 

(10;  Steinitz prefers  9  P-Q4,  Q-KB4 ;    10  P.KB4,  &c.    See diagram below. 

(11)  If  9  ..,B-K2;  10P.Q4,  Q-KB4!  (ifQ-Q4;  11  B-Kt5,  B-K3;  «l2BxB. 
KxB;  13  Kt-QB5,  &c.)  11  Kt-Kt3,  Q-KtS  (best,  otherwise  12  Kt-R5);  12  B-Bi winning a  Pawn. 

(12)  11  Kt-B3,  Q-Q2;  12  B-Kt5,  P-R3;  13  Q-R5,  P-KKt3;  14  Q.B4»  B-Kt2; 
10  B-K3,  P.KKt4 ;    16  Q-Kt3,  0-0-0.    (Clerc v.  De Riviere.) 

(13)  If  11  ..,  B-Q3;  12  P-QKt3,  P.Kt4 !;  13  Q-Q2,  0-0;  14  P-QB4,  PxP; 
16  P X  P,  Q X  BP ;    16Kt-B6ch,  K-Rsq !;    17  R.K4,  B-KB4 ;    18  R-B4+ . 

(14)  If  12  . .,  B.Q3 ;    13  P-QKt3,  QR-Ksq ;    14  P-QB4,  Q-KB4 ;    15  QR.(5sq+* 

(15)  Continued.l6P-B3,  BxKt;    17PxB  +  . 

(16)  If  12  ...Q-Kt3;  13  Kt.B6ch.  P x  Kt',  14  R x  Bcb,  K.Q2 ;  15QxQ,PxQ: 
16BxBP+. 

(17)  If  12  . . ,  Q.Kt3 ;    13  P.KB4  -J. . 

(18)  If  15  ..,  PxKt;  16  BxP,  Q-Q4;  17  R.K5,  <&e.  The Col.  Is continued 
16  QR-Bsq,  Q-Kt4 ';  •  17  P-QR4^  Q x  P.P :  18  Q.Q3,  P.KKt3 ;  19  (J-KKS.  P.KB4 ; 
20  Kt X  P,  B X  KtP ;    21  B.B6ch ixxd mjx% 

(Col.  11.) 

(Col.  13.) 

^.     ^     mi M 

m.    . 

m  2  tai After White's  6th move. 

**    WW/,   '^^.  W//M  1^    '/;^^k  ^Wf^y m    wr m    r 

■    HP    "Wi   ' 

■  i —  v////m        -m; 

'^m     'mm After 'White's  9th moye. 

144  THE KING*S KNIGHT'S OPENING Table  74.--THE FOUR KNIGHTS'    GAME. 

1P.K4,P-K4;     2  Kt-KB3.  Kt-QB3-;    3  Kt-B3,  Kt-B3. 

16                    17                    18                    19  20 

4  B-Kt5              P-Q4                KtxP B-B4       (8) 
Kt-Q5             B-Kt5     (6)     KtxKt KtxP 

5  KtxP  (1)    PQ5                P-Q4  BxPch  0-0 
KtxKP  (2)     Kt-QKtsq WKt3  KxB KtxKt 

6  K^xKt  (3)    KtxP—        P.K5  KtxKt QPx-Kt Q-K2  (4)    P-Q3    —         Kt.Ktsq.(7)  P-Q4  Q.K2 

7  0-0                                      B>QB4  QKt-Kt5ch  (9)  R-Ksg QxKt P-QB8  K-Ktsq(lO)  P-Q3 

8  JR-Ksq Q-B3  PQ4  Kt-Kt5 
B-K2                                      FQ4  P.KR3  Kt-Qsq 

9  Kt-B3  (5)                            FxFenpas Kt-R3  P-B4 

Kt^B3  BxKt FB8 

10  QK2cb PxB PxP K-Q2    +        P.K5  QPxP 

11  KtK6  Q-R5cb gTxEt P-KKt3 

PxKt-  Q-R4 

P-B3    -^  B.Kt2 

12 

la Kt-K4 

B-K3  + 

(1)    Or  6  B-B4,  KtxKP;    6  BxPch.  &c. 

(2;    If  5   ...  K4xB:    6  KtxKt,   P-Q3  ;    7  Kt-KB3,  KtxP;    8  Q-K2,  Q-K2  ; 
9  KixBgch-l-. 

(3)    If  6  B.B4,  Q-Kt4  ;    7  0-0  +  .    Steinitz jiotes  6  ...,  Kt-Q3  good enough. 

C4>    Or he may safely take the Bishop. 

(5     If  9  . . ,  Q-Q3  ;    10  B-B4  :    if  9  . . .  Q-QB4  ;   10  P-QKt4,  Q x  P  ;  11  Kt-Q5, 
Q-B4;    12  KtxB  +  .    (Steinitz.; 

(6)  4  . . ,  P x  P  !  ;    5  Kt X  P,  B-Kt5  transposes into the Scotch Game.    See p.  61. 
Col.  35. 

(7)  6..,Q-K2;    7  B-KKt5,  P-KR3;    8  Kt-Q5,  Q-Qsq ;    9  KtxKtch,   PxKt; 
lOBxBP,  &c. 

^   (8)    4  P-QR3,  P.Q4  (orP-QR3);  6PxP,  KtxP;  6KtxP,QKtxKt;  7Q-K2  =  . 

'  (9)    If  7  KKt-Kt5cb.  K-Ksq  ;    8  g-K6ch  (or  8  Q.B3,  Q-K2),  P-Kt3  ;    9  Q-B3. 
B-KB4  4* . 

(10)    Or  7  ...,  K'Ksq! 

BOOK II. 

THE KING'S BISHOP'S OPENING. 

1   P-K4,   P-K4;    2  B-B4. 

ii*ie»*p| 

m iw,  iw  %|  i%m fil  ^  itlwS M 1 

IN practice the King's Bishop's Opening is often treated as if it were merely a  transposition of the King's Knight's Opening,  and recent analysis tends to the same conclusion.  It has,  however,  a separate history and a  special form.  The principle upon which it is founded is the plausible one that it must be better to play  2  B-B4  than  2  Kt-B3, 
because the former does not interfere with the advanceof the KB Pawn. 
Accepting a  theory so unexceptionable,  the older experts for the same reason recommended the reply  2  ...,  B-B4.  Walker  (1841)  considered 
2  ...,  Kt-KB3  an inferior move,  its good points notwithstanding.  It attacked the King's Pawn,  and if White paused to defend the same. 
Black,  after  3  ...,  B-B4,  was in a  position to Castle,  and the attack on bis weak KB Pawn,  of which much was made by early writers,  had lost its force.   To obviate this apparent loss of time,  White played the counter 

146 

CHESS OPENINGS. 

attack  3  Kt-KB3,  and in reply to  3*...,  KtxP be was advised to play 
4  Q-K2  (Col.  7).  The -ingenious but artificial variation in which this development works out to Black's advantage is evidence of the time and labour bestowed upon it.  The Result was the discovery of the Boden- 
Kieseritzky Gambit  (4  Kt-QB3  for the first player instead of  4  Q-K2)  ; 
and subsequently in Q-K2  being adopted for White on the third move,  as the continuation most in accordance with the spirit of the attack.  This move when played after  2  B-B4,  B-B4  is fairly met by  3  ...,  Q-K2  on 
"Black's part.  After  2  ...,  Kt-B3  ;  Q-K2,  the reply Q-K2  is stopped by development considerations.  White threatens the advance of his centre Pawns,  while keeping in hand the possibility of B  x Pch. 

Besides the development move  2  .  .,  B-B4,  and the counter attack 
2  ...,  Kt-KB3,  Black may reply to  2  B-B4  by the purely defensive move 
2  ...,  P-QB3  (to stop the action of White's K  Bishop by P-Q4),  or by the counter attack  2  ...,  P-KB4.  The datter is a  little stronger in this opening than in the King's Knight's operiing,  owing to White's move 
2  B-B4  not being so immediately attacking as  2  Kt-KB3.  Both these variations have been elaborated by the older writers and we have found little to add to previous analysis. 

The counter development by  2  ...,  B-B4,  as now continued,  leads to a  game very similar to the Giuoco Piano  (Cols.  11 — 17).  Mr.  Potter,  in reviewing the Bishop's opening,  is disposed to abandon all these lines ol play as obsolete,  and rest his prospects for the first player on the variation given in Col.  1,  and Note  4.  Here it will be seen that White adopts a 
defensive attack while Black,  plays an attacking defence.  The same position may be brought about in the Giuoco Piano by the moves  1  P-K4» 
P-K4;  2Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3  ;  3  B-B4,  B-B4  ;  4  P-B3,  Kt-i33  ;  5  P-Q3. 
0-0  ;   6  Q-K2,  P-Q4  ;   7  B-Kt3.     See diagram below. 

&i*<.t-.^ 

III i  gf     ■  *  si  * 
m ml Kih 

^L SUMMARY OF THE SECTIONS INTO WHICH THE 
^Hfc^   KING'S BISHOP'S OPENING IS DIVIDED. 

P 

1   P.K4.   P.K4;    2   B-Bi Section I.     The Berlin Defence^ 

2...,  Kt.KBS,  &c.    Cols.  MO. 

The Classical Defence. 
2  ...,  B-B4.  &c.    Cols.  11-22. 

McDonnells Double Gambit. 

2  ....  B-B4;    3  P-QKt4,  BxP;   4  P.B4,  Ac. 
Col.  23. 

The Queen's Bishop^s Pawn Defence, 
2  ...,  P-QB3,  &c.     Cols.  24-25. 

The Calabrese Counter Gambit 
2  ...,  P-KB4,  &c.     Cols.  26-30. 

Section II.     The  .Boden-Kieseritzky Gainvit. 

2....  Kt-KB3;   3  Kt-KB8.  KtxP;   4  Kt-B3.  &c. 

148 

THE KING'S BISHOP'S OPENING. 

Si Table  75.—' 
1   P.K4,  p. 

:CTJON I. 

DEFENCE. 
[,  Kt-KB^. 

rHE BERLIN K  4  ;    2  B  .  B  ^ 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

B Q-K2 

Kt-QB3 

P-Q4 

Kt-QB3  (1) 

B-B4      (7) 

PxP I 

4 

P-QB3 

(2) 

P-Q3 

P-K5       (8) 

Kt-KBS B.B4 

(3) 

Kt-B3 

P-Q4 

KtxP       ' 

5 

P-B4 

(4) 

B-KKt5 

B-Kt3!   (9) 

QxP BxKt P-Q3 

Kt.K5 

Kt-B4        ■ 

6 

RxB 
0-0 

Kt-Q5  — 

Kt-K2 
B-QB4  (10) 

Kt-K^ 

P-Q4 

— 

Kt-K3 

7 

P-Q3 

(5) 

PxQP P-KB3 

0-0 

P-Q4 

B.Kt5 

Kt-Kt4 

KtxQ  (11) 

BxP Q-K3 

KtxP  — 

BxPch 

8 

KtxB" 

KtxP    " 

IMM* 

Kt.K3  — 

K-K2 

9 

PxKt P^"~ 

Q.Kt34- 

B-Kt5ch K-Q3 

BxP Kt-B4ch 

10 

R-Ksq B.K3 

.^ 

K-B3        "■ 
BxQ 

11 

Kt.K44-  (6) 

P-Q4     (12) 

(1)  lf3..,B-B4;    4BxPch?,  KxB;    5  Q-B4ch,  l>-<54 

berg V, 

4  Kt-KB3 
Burn) 

B-B4  ;    5  Kt-Kt5,  P-Q4  ;    6  P x  P,  Kt x  P GQxB,  KtxP-f-. 
7  P-Q3,  0-0  (Guns- 

(3>  If  4  . . ,  P-Q4  ;    5  -P X  P,  Kt X  P ;    6  P-Q4 ! 

(4)  Or  5  Kt-B3,  0-0  ;    6  P-Q3,  P-Q4  ;    7  B-Kt3==.    (Potter.)    Dia.  p.  146. 

(5)  If  7  P-B5,  P-Q4;    8PxP,  KtxP;    9  P-KKt4)  P-K6  +  . 

(6)  12  P-KR3,  B-B4;  .13  P-Q4,B-Q6,  &c. 

(7)  3  ..,  KtxP;  4  BxPch  <or Q.115.  C.  E.  R.),  KxB;  5  KtxKt,  P-Q4  (or Kt-B3;  6  Q-B3ch,  K-Ksq) ;  6  Q-B3ch,  K-Ktsq  ;  7  Kt-Kt5  (or Q-QKt3  !),  Q-Q2+ : 
or  4  KtxKt,  P-Q4;  5  (^-R5,  PxB;  6  QxKPch,  B-K3  ;  7  Kt-KB3?  (Halleri;, 
Pollock),  or  7  P-QR3  1  (Lee.)  If  3  . . ,  P-B3 ;  4  P-B4.  If  3  . . ,  P-QKt4  Black pLiys the Evans Gambit with a  move behind. 

(8)  4  QxP leads into the centre Gambit.  If  4  B-KKt5,  Kt-QBS  (or B-K2, 
6  P-K5,  Kt-Ktsq).    After  3  . . ,  Kt x  P  ;  4  P x  P with a  good game. 

(9)  5B-Kt5ch,B-Q2;  6BxBch,  KKtxB;  7QxP,  QKt-B3;  8  QxP,KKtxP-f. 

(10)  Or  6  ..,  B-Kt5ch.     (C.  E.  R.) 

{11)  This Col,  is Prince Ourou«sof['s variation.  Black may play  7  /.,  Kt-QB3  or B-B4  +  . 

(12)  12  Kt-K3,  B-K3==  :  if  11  ..,  KtxP;  12  R-Bsq,  KtxR;  13  Kt.K5ch, 
K.Q3;  14  BxPch,  K-K:^;  15  Kt.QB3,  K-B3 ;  16  Kt-Q5ch,  K-B4 ;  17  P-KKt4ch and wins. 

THE KING'S BISHOP'S OPENING. 

140  • 

Table" 76.— THE BERLIN DEFENCE. 

XO 

■  - 

PTK4.   P.K4;     2   B- 

B4,   Kt-KB3 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

P-B4 

Kt-KB3 
KtxP P-Q3 
P-Q4? 

KtxP     (1) 

B-B4 

Kt-B3 

P-Q3 

Q-K2       (4) 

PxP P-KB4 

(7) 

P-KB4 

Q-R5ch   (2) 

P-Q4 

Kt>ep P-Q4 

B-B4 

P-KKt3 

Ii-Kt3      (5) 

Kt-KB3 

BxP 

(8) 

PxP     (10) 

KtxKtP Kt-QB3 

Kt-QB3 

KtxB QKtxP Kt-KB3 

P-Q3 

0-0 

PxKt B-Kt3 

Q-R4 

Kt-B4 

B-K2 

QxP 

0-0 

R-Ktsq KtxP R-Ksq Kt-KB3 

Kt-KB3(11) 

P-Q4: 

Kt-Q5 

P-KB3 

PxP KtxKt BxP Q-K3 

P-Q4  + 

BxP QxKt PxP      (3) 

Kt(B4)xB B-Kta 

(9) 

P-Q4 

0-0         (6) 

Kt.B3 

— 

B-Kt5  ! 

KtxP Q-K8ch 

— 

PxP Q-K2 

PxP Kt(Ktb)Q5+ 

B-KKt5  + 

(1)  3  . .,  PxP transposes into the German defence to the Bishop's Gambit.  If 
3  . . ,  P-Q4 ;  4  BP X  P  (P X  QP ;  4  P x  P is also a  position in the Bishop's Gambit), 
KtxP;  5  Q-B3,  Q-R5ch,  (or Kt-QB3);  6  P-KKt3,  KtxKtP;  7  PxKt,  QxB; 
8  Kt-B3,  B-K3;   9  P-Q3,  Q-B3;   10B-Kt5  (orKKt-K2l C.  E.  K),  P-Q5  +  , 

(2)  Mr Wayte notes that  4  ..,  Kt-Q3  is worth considera£ion.  He continues by 
5  B-Kta,  PxP;    6  QB X  P,  Kt-B4.     [B.  C M.,  1891,  p.  506.) 

(3)  Black's advantage is doubtful against White's development.  If  7  . .,  Kt-B4 ; 
8R-Kt5,  Q-R6;    9BxPch,  K-K2:     if9..,KxB;    10  R-R5,  &c. 

(4)  4  Kt-QB3  transposes into the Boden-Kieseritzky Gambit.  If  4  P-Q3,  Kt-Q^; 
5  KtxP,  KtxB;    6KtxKt,  P-Q4;    7Kt-K5,  B-Q3;    8  P-Q4,  &c. 

(5)  IfSKtxP,  B-K3! 

(6)  If  9  K-Bsq,  B-QB4. 

(7)  4  Kt.QB3  runs into the Giuoco Piano. 

(8)  IfSPxQP,  Kt-Kt5.    If  5PxKP,  KtxP. 

(9)  Or Blaek could castle and give up the Bishop's Pawn.     (Handbuck.) 

(10^  5  Kt-KB3  transposes into the King's Gambit declined,  and  5  Kt-QB3  into the Vienna Game. 

(11)  Or  7  B-Kt5  !    {Handbuck.)    If  7  P-Q4,  Kt x  P threatening Q-R5ch. 

150  THE KING'S BISHOP'S OPENING. 

Table  77.— THE 
1  P-K4,    PK CLASSICAL DEFENCE, 
^4,    B.B4 

:4;    2  B-E 

, 

11 

12 

IS 

14 

15 

n P-QB3 
Kt-KB3 

Q-Kt4     (7) 

4 

P-Q4 
PxP Q-B3       (8) 
Q-Kt3 !      ■ 

5 

P-K5  ! 
P-Q4       (1) 

Kt-K2 

Q.K2?' 

Kt:QB3 

6 

B-QKt5ch PxKt B-Kita PxP P-Q3 

B-Q2 

PxB    ■ 

Kt-K5 

B-KtQch P-Q3           ' 

7 

B X  Bell Q-E5 

PxP K-Bsq  ! 

B-K3 

KKtxB""' 

0-0! 

Q-R5      (4) 

.Kt-K6 

B-Kt3 

e PxP QxB B-K3! 

Q-Kt4 

Kt-Q2    -- 

B-KtSch R-Ksqch B-Kt5ch P-KIU iG) 

KKt-K2~" 

9 

Kt-QB3 

Kt.K2     (3) 

K-Bsq ! 

Q-R5ch 

0-0 

P-Q6 

P-QB3 

P.Kt3 

10 

Kt-K2 

B-K3 

P-Kt3      (5) 

Q-R6 

P.QB4       ■■ 

PxKt. 

B.R6ch P-B3 

«  1 

PxP Kt-Q2 

KtxB P-B3 

XI KtxBP  (2) 

Kt-R3 

QxKtch P-Q4      ■  "- 

12 

0-0 

QxP(B5) 

K-Ktsq B-K2-f BxKt QxP P-KR3 

KtxB QxKP  — 

B-B2  — 

13 

P-Q5 
Kt.K2  -- 

— 

■— 

14 

Kt.B3  - 

(1)  5  . . ,  Kt.K5 ; 

6  Q.K2.  Kt.Kt4 

;    7  P-B4,  Kt-KS  ;    8  P.B5,  Kt-Bsq ;    9  Kt-BS, 

PxP;    10Kt.Kt5+. 

(2)   11  . . ,  Kt X  KP leaves the isolated QPawn less defensible after the  14th move. 

(3>  9  K-Bsq,  PxQBP;     10  KtxP.  Q-Q6ch;.  11  KKt-K2,  RxKt;    12  Q-Q5. 
R-QB7ch+.. 

(4)  Black cau play  7  . . ,  B-Kt5ch,  or B-Kt3  with advantage.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(5)  I prefer  10  Kt-K2.  followed by P-B3 :    or  10  Kt-KBS;     (C.  E.  R.)  • 
((6)  e.:xJP-QB3;    OQxKt.  P-Q4;    lOBxP,  PxB;    llQxQP-f. 

la)  Approved by Jaenisch.    If  3  . .,  Q-K2;    4  Kt-KB3,  P-Q3:    5  0-0,  B-K3,  &c. 
'^(8)  4  K-Bsq,  Q-I^^;   5  P.Q4.  B-KtS ;  .6  Kt.B3.  P.Q3»  &c. 

6. 

10 

11 

12 

13 

16 
P-QB3 

Table  78.— THE CLASSICAL DEFENCE. 

B-B4. 
19 

P-Q4 
BxP 

(1) 

Kt-KB3 
Q-B3  ! 

(2) 

0-0 
P-Q4 

(3) 
(4) 

PxP B-Kt5 

PxP BxKt P-B7 
Kt-B3 

QxQB PxQ Kt-:B3 

P-B3 
B-Kt3 

P-B4 
P-K5    - 

, 

P  -'K  4  ,  P 

.K4;     2B-B4 

17 

18 

Q-K2 

Kt-KB3 

P.B4       (5) 

P-Q4 

P-Q4 

BxP PxP KtxB PxP PxJ^t B-Kt5ch 

.0-0 

Kt-QB3 

PxP KtxB QxP PxKt Kt-QB3 

QxP Q-Qsq Kt-B3 

Kt-B3 

B-Kt^ 
B-K3 

BxKKt QxB. 
QxQ PxQ-B-KKt5>  — 

Q-K2 
P-B4 
Kt.KB3 
Kt-KB3 

P-Q3 
Kt-B3 

P-B3 
P-Q3 

(6) 

B.KKt5 

P-B5 

QKt-Q2 

B-KKt'5  (7) 

PKR3 

B-R4 

P-KKt4 

P X  P ew pan PXP P.KR3 

BxKt QxB 

20 

P-Q3 
P-B4 

(8) 
(9) 

BxKt?(10) 

RxB PxP P-Q4 

Q-R5ch P-KKt3 

PxP RxP Kt-KB3 

B-KKt5 

Q-R4 

Q-Kt2 

EFKtS B-Q2 

KtxP B-K2+ 

B-K3    — 

0-0-0  — 

(1)  If4PxP,  BxPch;    5KxB,  Q-R5ch-f. 

(2)  Or  5  Q-R4ch,  P-B3 ;  6  B x  Pch,  K-Bsq ;  7  Kt-B3 1  P.QKt4  ;  8  Q-Kt3. 
KtxP;  9  P-Q4,  PxP',  10  PxP,  BxP;'  11  KtxB,  QxKt;  12  B-K3,  &c. 
(C.  E.  R.)    Or  5  Q.Kt3,  0-0  ;    6  B x  KtP or Kt-B3,  &c. 

(3)  Or  5..,  KtxB;  6PxK<;vP-B4;  (if)  7  Kt-K2,  0-0 ;  8P-Q4,P-K5;  9  Q-Kt3, 
B-Q3;    10B-B4,  BxB;    llKtxB,  &c. 

(4)  Or  6  B-B4,  B-KKt5 ;  7  Q-Q3,  Q-K2 ;  8  Q-B2,  B-K3 ;  9  BxB,  PxB; 
10  Kt-B3,  Kt-B3  ;    11  P-Q3,  (if)  Kt-Kt5 ;    12  R-Bsq !  {Handbiich.) 

(5)  Or  4  P,Q3.     (C.  E.  R.)     For  4  Bx Pch see Note  1,  Col.  1. 

(6)  The Lopez Gambit.  (Cols.  18-20.)  If  4  ..,  PxP:  5  Kt-KB3.  P-KKt4 ; 
6P-KR4,  &c.  ' 

(7)  Or  9  P.KR3  I    (C.  E.  R.) 

(8)  3  . .,  Kt.QB3 ;    4  P-QB3,  Kt-B3  transposes to Col.  1 :   4  B x  Pch is not good. 

(9)  Or  4  P-QKt4,  BxP;    6  B x  Pch,  K x  B  ;    6  Q-B4ch,  &c> 

(10)  Or4  ..,Kt.KB3;    5  P-Q3,  KlfrKtS ;    6  Kt.KB3.  B-BTdh ;    7  K.Qsq,  B-QB4 

152  THE KING'S BISHOP'S OPENING. 

Table  79.— THE CLASSICAL DEFENCE,   &c. 

1   P-K4,  P.K4;    2  B.B4. 
21  22  2$  24  25 

2 

B-B4 

P-QB^? 

3 

P-B4  . 

QH5 

(5) 

P-QKt4 

Q-K2 

P-Q4 

BxKt! 

(1) 

Q-K2 

BxKtP Kt-B3 

Kt-B3 

4 

Q-R5 

(2) 

Kt-KB3 

P.r>4       (8) 

P-B4 

Kt-KB3 

Q.K2 

P-Q3 

P-Q4 !     (9) 

PxP?  (11) 

P-Q4 

RxB Kt-Kt5 

PxQP P-K5 

PxKP 

5 

Kt:QB3 

Kt-KB3 

P-K5 

Kt-Q4 

KtxP 

6 

P-Q3 

QxPch  (6) 

Kt.K2 

P-Q4 

B-Q3    — 

Kt-B3 

QxQ Kt-KB3 

B-K2 

P-KB4- 

7 

Q-K2 

(3) 

BxQch 

0-0       (10) 

BxKt Kt-Q5 

K-K2 

0-0 

B-R5ch 

<-> 

Q-Qsq B-B4 

QKt-B3 

P-KKt3 

8 

P-Q4 

P.KR3 

P-B3 

PxP P-B3 

Kt-KB3 

PxP BxPch 

9 

Kt-Kt6 

KtxB KtxP KxB P-KKt3 

0-0    — 

K-Rsq Q.B3ch4- 

10 

PxB 

(4) 

K-Qsq- 

(7) 

B-Kt5  -f 

(1)  3  . . »  Kt-KB3  or P-Q3  will transpose into the  "King's Gambit declined.  If 
3  . . ,  P X  P  ? ;  '4  P-Q4,  Q-R5ch ;    5  K-Bsq,  B.Kt3 ;    6  Kt-KB3  + . 

(2)  If  4RxB,  Q.R5ch;    6  P.KKt3,  Q x  RP ;    6  K-Bsq,  P-Q4-I-. 

(3)  T Q-Qsq,  PxP;    8  B x  P,  P-Q4,  &c. 

(4)-  11  P  >;  Kt,  KP X  QP ;  12  P-KR3,  Kt-B3  ;  13  Q-R4ch,  P-B3 ;  14  Q x  P  (B5), 
BxP-f-. 

(5)  If  3  Q-Kt4,  Q-B3.  3  Kt-KB3  transposes into the Giuoco Piano.  If  3  P-Q4, 
B X  P :  4  Kt.KB3,  Kt-QB3  (or Q.B3) ;  5  P-B3,  B-Kt3 :  6  Kt-Kt5,  Kt-R3 ;  7  Q-R5, 
Q-B3-1-. 

(6)  BxPch,  K-Qsq;   7Q-R4,  R-Bsq;    8  B-B4,  Kt.Kt5  ;    9  0-0,RxP-f. 

(7)  To provide against P-Q4,  or Kt-R4. 

(8)  if  4  P^QB3 ;  B.B4  ? ;  ^  5  P.Q4.  PxP;  6  B x  Pch,  &c. :  if  4  . . ,  B-R4  White may vary with  5  Q-Kt3,  Q-B3 ;    6  P-B4,  &c. 

(9)  White's move  4  P-B4  constitutes McDonnell's Double Gambit.  If  4-. . ,  P x  P; 
5  Kt-KB3,  P-Q4  (or B-K2) ;  6  P x  P  (6  B x  P,  Kt-KB3 ;  7  P-B3,  K-t x  B followed by B-Q3  or KtxKtP+),  Kt-KB3;    7  P-B3,  B-Q3+      (Sanders.) 

(10)  7P-B3!,  B-QB4;  8  P-Q4,  PxP en pas;  9  QxP,  0-0  t  10  B-R3,BxB; 
U Kt X  B,  B-Kt5,  &c.     (Mongredien v.  Morphy.) 

(11)  Or4..,P-Q3;    5PxP,PxP;    6  Kt.KB3,  B.Q3,  <fec Table  80.— THE CALABRESE COUNTER GAMBIT. 

6 

1   P.K4,   P,K4;    2  B-B4»  P.K:B4(1)v 

27  28                   29  80 

P-Q3       (2)  BxKt P;xP Kt-KB3  RxB Kt-KB8 

P-B4       (3)    ■  Q-R5ch  (7)    Kt-QB3  (9) 

P-Q4       (4)    P-Q8  PxBP P-Kt3  FQ4         ^ 

PxQP Kt-KBB BxPJ QxRP KtxP PxP PxKP    (6)  PxP R-Kt2  KtxKt Q-K2ch QPxP PxP Q-R8  Q.RSch B-K2               B-Kt5  Q-K2  Q-Kt4  K^M          " 

Kt-QB3           PxP P-K5  Q-R3  P-Q4 

QKt-Q2  BxKt P-Q3  PxP Q<Q3 

BxP QxB Q-K2  Kt-QB3  B-Kt5ch EFKt3  PxP PxP Q-B4  Kt^KBS 

0-0-0+(5)  Q-QKt3  BxP Q-K3  Kt-B3 

10 

Q^sq P-B3  R-B2  P-K5 

B-KKt5+        Kt-KB3+        Kt-R3  ^^  Q-Kc5ch P-Q4       (8) 

(1)  2..,P-QKt4;  3  B X  KtP,  P-KB4 ;  4P-Q4,  PxQP;  5QxP,  P-B3;  6  B.B4, 
Kt.B3!;   7B-KKt5,  B-K2;    8  P-K5,  Kt-Kt5 ;    9BxB,  QxB;    10Kt-KB3l 

(2)  The reply  2  . . ,  P-KB4  constitutes the Calabrese Counter Gambit.  If  3  P-Q4, 
PkQP;  4  B X Kt  (or Q X P,  Kt-QB3  ;  5Q-K3,  PxP;  6  QxPch,  Q-K2  =  ),  RxB; 
5QxP,  Kt-B3l;    6Q^Q5,  Kt-K2;    7Q-Q3,  PxP;    8  Q x KP,  P-KKt3  = . 

«3)  4  Kt-KB3  gives a  position in the King's Gambit declined,  with White a  move in hand. 

(4)  4  ...PxKP;  5PxKPtif  5  QPxP,  Kt-BS.  &c.),  P-Q4;  6  PxKt,  PxB; 
7PxKtP,  BxP;    8Q.R5ch  +  .     (C.  E.  R.) 

(5)  Or9P-Q6,  PxP;    10  B-Kt5ch,  or B-Kq+.    <C.  E,  R.) 

(6)  5.., PxBP;    60-0,PxP;    7PxP.&c. 

(7)  4  Kt-QB3!,  Q-Kt4 ;    5  Q-B3,  P-Q3 ;    6  P.Q4,  Q-Kt3  =  .     If  4  PxP,  P.Q4l 

5  Q-R5ch,  P-KKt3 ;    6  P x  P,  R x  P ;    7  Q x  RP,  Q-B3  + .     (Handbuch.) 

(8)  11  Kt X  QP,  Kt.B3  ;    12  P.Q3,  Kt-Q5+ :     if  12  P-QB3,  B-K3,  &c. 

(9)  4P.Q4,  PxP;  5QxP,  P.Q4;  6B-Q3,  Kt.B3;  7  Q-K3ch,  K-B2;  8  Kt-K2, 
B-Kt5ch;  9P-B3,  R-Ksq;   10Q.Kt3,  B-Q3  +  .     Another variation is  4  P-KKt4,  P-Q4; 

6  B.Kt3,  P-KR4:    or  6  . .,  B-B4  as in thcl^mg's Gambit.     Advantage in the col.  1$ 
doubtful- 

^154 

THE KING'S BISHOP'S OPENING. 

SECTION II. 

,  THE BODEN-KIESERITZKY GAMBIT. 

1P.K4,  P.K4;    2B.B4.  Kt-KB^;    3  Kt -K B3.  KtxE i  i H  t  «Tll1' 

SWC^M ik W'mV^^        ♦ 

Si i 

^^^ 

i^SWWi i  S i 

THEBE is a  combined proprietorship in this opening owing to its discovery simultaneously by Messrs.  Boden and.  Kieseritzky.  It is worthy of attention as an example'of the difficult and occasionally danger- 
ous position which may arise through the capture of an opponent's King's Pawn before your King has castled.  After  4  Kt-B3,  Kt x  Kt ;  5  QP x  Kt, 
P-KB3,  White has fo all appearance an overpowering attack with his Queen,  two Bishops,  and Knight ;  and this no doubt would be the case if he were free to go on with it.  But he is not quite safe at home.  He is therefgre obliged to expend a  preliminary nwye in castling,  which gives Black time to form a  line of defence with his Pawns.  There is a  period of  *•  Sturm und Drang,"  but'  in the end Black,  with care and patience, 
will either retain the Pawn captured on his third move,  or gain an advantage in position.  He may,  if he prefers it,  turn the opening into the Two Knights'  Defence by playing Kt-QB3  on his third move,  or he may secure an even game by Kt-QR3  on his fourth move,  thereby transposing into the Four Knights'  Game. 

The Gambit position may be broufjht about in the Petroff Counter Attack,  or the Vienna Opening. 

Table  8L-~THE BODEN-KIESERITZKY GAMBIT. 

P.K4,  P.K4;  2  B.B4,  Kt-KBS;  3  Kt-KB3,  KtxP  (1). 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

1 

Kt-B3 

(2) 

KtxKt QPxKt 

(3) 

P-KB3 
0-0 

(4) 

P-Q3 
Kt-R4 

P.KKt3 
P-B4 

Q-K2 
P-B5 

(5) 

P.KKt4 
Q-R5ch 

(6) 

K-Qsq Kt-B3 

(7) 

P-KK3 
KtxKtP BPxKt P-B6 

Q-R2 
B-Q3 

P-K5 
R-Ksq 

(Diagram p.  154.) 
8 

Q-K2 !     (8) 
R-Ksq     (9) 

P-Q3 
Kt-R4 

(10) 

Kt-B3 
P-B4 

(11) 
(12) 

B-Q2 
Q-R5cb K-Qsq Kt-Kt6 

Q Ksq B-Q3 

B-K2-f P-Q3? 
KtxP 

(13) 

Q-K2     (14) 
BxPch K-Qsq 
0-0 

QxKfc R-Ksq Q-B3     (15) 

R-K8ch K-Q2 

Q-Kt4ch K-B3 

B-Q5ch  ! 

KxB Q-K4ch iK.B4       ^ 

B^K3ch K-Kt4 

P,R4ch  + 

4 
Q-K2 

P-Q4 
KtxP 

(16) 

B-QB4  !(i7) 

P-Q3 

PxB!  (18) 

QxKt 

0-0 

QxBP Q-K2 
P-Q4 

BxP QxB Kt-B3 
Q-K3 

5 
KtxP P-Q4 
B-Kt3 

(19) 

Q-Kt4 
0-0 

QxKt R-Ksq   (20) 

B-QB4 

Q-K2 

B.KKt5(21) 

QxB BxPch K-Bsq BxR Q-B8cb(22) 

K-K2 

QxR Kt-Kt6ch  + 

P-Q4  + 

i 

(1)  3  . . ,  Kt-B3  is the  "  Two Knights'  Defence." 

(2)  The same position may occur in the PetrofE Counter Attack by  1  P-K4,  P-K4 ; 
2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-KB3  ;  3  B.B4,  Kt x  P  ;  4  Kt-B3;  also in the Vienna Game by  1  P-K4, 
P-K4;    2Kt-QB3.  Kt-KB3:    3B-B4,  KtxP;    4  Kt-B3. 

■     (3)   4    ...'Kt-QBS transposes into the Four Knights'  Game.     If  4   ...  P-Q4 ; 

5  B X  P,  Kt-KB3  ;    6  B-Kt3,  B-Q3  ;    7  P-Q3  or  4.     If  . . ,  4  Kt-KB3  ;    5  Kt x  P,  P-Q4 ; 

6  B-Kt3,  B-Q3;     7  P-Q4  +  .     If  4    ...  Kt.Q3:     5  B-KtS,   P-KS;     6  Q-K2,  B.K2; 

7  Kt X  P,  Kt X  Kt ;  8  Q x  Kt,  0-0 ;  9  0-0.  &c. :  5  . . .  P-KB3,  to hold the Pawn,  gives Black a  difficult game. 

158  THE KING'S BISHOP'S OPENING. 

(4)  Or5..,B:K2;  6  KtxP,0-0,  &c.  If5..,P.QB3;  6KtxP,P-Q4;  70-0. 
B-Q3;    8  B-Q3,  0-0=  (Suhle and Neumann.) 

(5)  If8  ..,P-KB4;    9KtxBP,  BxKt;    10  Q-Q5,  &c. 

(6)  The Handbuch gives  9  . . ,  P x  P ;    10  Qch,  K-Qsq,  &c. 

(7)  If  11  Kt.Kt6,  Q-Ksq ;  12  Q-R3  (or  12  B-K2I Pierce),  QxKt;  13PxQ.BxQ; 
14  PxB,  PxP-t-.  The continuation of the column is by Mr.  Potter.  The Rev.  \V. 
C.  Green proposes  11  B x  P,  if P  x B ;  ~  12  P-B6,  &c.     See B.  C,  M.,  1891,  p.  17. 

(8)  6  . . ,  P-KKt3 ;  7  R-Ksq,  P-Q3  ;  8  Kt-Kt5,  P x  Kt ;  9  R x  Pch  + .  (Staunton V.  Horwitz.)     If  6  ..,  Kt-B3;    7  Kt-R4,  Kt-K2;    8B-Q3,  P-Q4;    9Qch,  K.Q2; 

10  P.KB4  +  :    if  7  . .,  Q-K2  ;    8  R-Ksq,  P-Q3  ;    9  Qch,  &c.,  as in note  12. 

(9)  7  Kt.R4,  P.KKt3;    8  K-Rsq,  P-QB3  +  . 

(10)  If  7  .'. ,  P-B3  White may obtain a  strong attack by  8  R x  P,  P x  R ;  9  B-KKt5, 
Q-B4 ;  10  Q-K2,  P-Q4  ;  11  Kt x  P,  B-K3 ;  12  Kt-Kt6,  K-Q2  ;  13  P-QKt4  or R-Ksq. 
(Pierce.)  B.  C.  M.,  1890,  p.  327.  The Schachzeitung gives:—  7  . . ,  Kt-B3;  8  Kt-Q4, 
KtxKt;    9PxKt,P-Q3;    10PxP,QPxP  +  .     Compare col.  20,  p.  144. 

(11)  8  . .,  P-KKt3  and  8  . . ,  B-K3  have been examined by Mr.  W.  T.  Pierce.  See B.  C.  M.,  1891,  p.  549,  and  1892,  p.  166. 

(12)  9  Q-R5ch,  K-Qsq  ;  10  B-Q3,  Q-Ksq  ;  11  B-Kt6,  Q-K3;  12  BxP,  Q-Kt5  ; 
13QxQ,  BxQ;    14  Kt-Kt6,  K-Q2;     15  KtxBch,  QRxKt,  &c.:    if  10  ..,  B-K3; 

11  Kt-Kt6,  B-B2;    12  KtxQ  (a),  BxQ;    13  KtxKtch,  PxKt;    14  B-QR6,  &c. 
Mr.  Ranken suggests  10  . .,  P-KKt4  ;   if  11  Kt-Kt6,  Q-Ksq^  &c, 

(a)  12  Q-R4,  B X  Kt L  13  Fx B,  P-KR3,  &c. 

(13)  Or  6  Kt-Kt5,  B.K3 ;    7BxB,  PxB;    8  Q-B3. 

(14)  If  6  ..,  PxKt;    7BxP"ch,  K.K2;    8  B-Kt5,  and wins 

(K)  If  10  ..,B-Kt5;    llRxQ,  BxQ;    12  B-Kt5ch,  K moves;    13RxB+. 

(16)  Or  5  B-Kt3,  B-QB4 ;    6  0-0,  Kt-QB3 ;  •  7  P-Q3,  &o.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(17)  If  5  . .,  B-K3;    6  B-Kt3,  Q-Kt4;    7  Kt.KB3,  &c. 

(18)  6BxPch!;  7  K-Qsq,  B-Kt3 ;  8B-Kt3,  Q-K2;  9  PxKt,  QxKt;  lOPxP. 
Ac.:  if  9  BxP,  Black may continue with QxKt,  or Kt-B7ch followed by KtxR. 
(0.  E.  R.) 

(19)  5  B-K2 1  (if)  Q.Kt4  ;    Kt-Kt4  (C.  E.  R.)  .  If  6  Kt x  P,  Q.K2,  &c. 

(20)  If  7  P.Q3,  B-Q3 ;  >8  P-KKt3,  Kt-Kt4,  «fec. 

(21)  IfS  ..,Q-K2;    9BxP,BxPch;    10QxB,<fcc. 

(22)  U K  X B  better,  but it would not save the'game.    (0.  E.  R.) 

BOOK III. 

THE KING^S GAMBITS. 

1    P-K4,    P.K4;    2   P.KB4. 

THE original idea of a  Gambit attack was to  "  trip up"  the adversary, 
or make it difficult for him to maintain l^he balance of position. 
The preliminary process in the King's Gambits is to bring about irregularity of formation by a  sacrifice which,  at the same tiu^e,  helps your development.  The second step is to confine tbe opposite playet'a attention to one quarter of  .the board.  The third to strengthen the attack in that direction,  until every available piece is brought into action.  The fourth to press gradually forward until the adverse pieces are either confined or crowded  ;  when assuming that the defence has been good,  and is too strong to be forced by a  further sacrifice,  the first player may avail himself of his greater command of the board to turn the attack in some other direction,  and ultimately recover the value of his Gambit Pawn»  or r.t all events be enabled to draw the game. 

-158  CHESS OPENINGS. 

Tlie main object is to get a  position in wbich superior skill can win against superior force.  This implies superior skill on the part of the Gambit~ giver,  which will account for Mr.  Reichhelm's remark that all Gambits are sound,  for the attack generally wins two-thirds of the games. 
On the other liand it has been noticed that masters in supreme contests do not risk their reputation on Gambits.  The scope cf this observation is limited by another remark,  that a  master when confronting another player of the highest ability becomes conservative,  and his choice,  in th^ 
openings at least,  takes a  narrower range.  Mr.  Keichhelm's view of the matter may be modified to this extent — that in a  series of games the fixst player will win as many by a  Gambit attack as he can by any other form of development. 

Gambit play has been treated somewhat unsym^athetically by ChesS writers,  v/ho have generally dwelt more on analytical than on actual results.  This is natural,  and would be right enough if Chess were a 
solitary game,  or if perfectly sound play were the rule rather than the exception.  As,  however,  there are no t^yo players,  whose minds are of exactly the same order,  it follows that good generalship in Chess will include an estimate of your opponent's style,  of the strength of his nerves,  of his liability to be led away from purely logical deductions by impulse or cupidity ;  whether he prefers a  forward or a  backward game,  and last,  not least,  whether his judgment is sufficiently sound to supply the place of analysis in novel and intricate positions,  where exhaustive analysis in aictual play is inconvenient and perhaps^ 
impracticable. 

In all.  Gambit attacks where a  piece is given,  the defending player should be prepared to exchange his Queen for Hook and Bishop,  cJr Rook and Knight,  if the latter are well to'  the fronts The King's Gambit may be declined without disadvantage,  or the second player may convert it into a  counter-gambit by Falkbter's continuation  (bee.  VIXI.)  2...,  P-Q4; 
3PxQP,  P.K5,  &c. 

-^^%^ 

eiJMMARV OF THE SECTIONS INTO WHICH THE KING'S GAMBITS ARE DIVIDED. 

SVCTKMI I. 

It nt IV. 

^      V. 

VI. 

vu. 

M vni. 

1     P.K4.    P-Kt4;      a P    KB4r. 

Tk0  Kmff*s Gambit  (^tftrj, 

8...,  PxP;  3  PQ4,  P.KB4,  Et-KBS,  dke. 
The Salvio Gambit, 
«...,  PxP;    8  Kt-KBS,  P-KKti;    4  B-B4. 
P.Ki5;  5  EtK§,  Ac. 
The Muzio Gambit. 
2,..,  PxP;   3  Kt-KB3,  PKKti;     4  B-B4, 
P-Kt$ ;  5  B X Pch,  Kt-BS.  P.Q4,  00,  Ac. 

The Kieeeriliky GambU. 

2...,  PxP;    3  Kt-KBS.  P-KKU ;    4  P-KE4; 
P-KU  ;    5  Kt-K5,  &e. 
The Ailgaier Gambit. 
2...,  PxP;    3  Kt.KB3.  P.KKt4;    4  P.KR4, 
p.Kt^ ;    5  Kt-Kt5.  &c. 

The Cunningham Gambit. 
2...,  PxP;    3  Kt.KB3,   B.K2;    4   B.B4, 
B-RSch,  &c. 

The King's Bishop*$  Gambit. 
2....  PxP;    3  B-B4.  &c. 

The King's  -Gambit Declined. 
2...,  PrQ4,  P.Q3,  Kt.KB3,  B.B4,  ^C 

160  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

'SECTION    1. 

THE KING'S GAMBiT.     (PROPER) 

1    P.K4,    P.K4;    2    P.KB4. 

Diagram p.  157. 

THE K'ing*8  Gamlj'it'was first mentioned by Buy Lopez in  1561,  but its chief exponents have been the Italian writers.  It opens out many beautiful'  ways of conducting the game by which the first player may obtain the advantage,  unless the defence is accurately played.  Its brilliant off-shoots the Kieseritzky and Allgaier Gambits are the most effective continuations for the attack,  and have won a  name for themselves.  The parent opening is a  collection of variations,  some of which are almost obsolete.  It is nevertheless advantageous to know them for the light they throw upon Gambit play generally.  The most important one,  the King's Knight's Gambit  (commencing with Col.  12),  is thoroughly met by the Classical defence,  placing King's Bishop at KKt2y with Black Pawns at KE3,  KKt4,  and KB5.  The weight of four Pawns to two on the King's side ought to win in the end game.  White may adopt a  ponderous game with a  Pawn short,  waiting for chances 
(Col.  29)  ;  or he may break through Black's lines by pushing forward his KRPawn on the fifth move  (Cols.  31-35) ;  or he may add to the force of bis attack by the further sacrifice of a  piece.  This is frequently recoverable in after. play,  but no continuation has yet been discovered which,  when analysed,  yields full compensation for the Gambit Pawn. 
The main difficulty is to bringput the Queen's Knight and Queen's Bishop without losing time.  The nearest approach to success is shown in Cols.  21-23.    Black may however compel the Salvio or the Muzio Gambit. 

The.  progress of analysis has been more satisfactory for the^  defence than for the attack.  Besides the Salvio and Muzio continuations,  which now stand in favour of the second player,  he may obtain at least an even game in many ways.  The resources of the opening are,  however,  far from being exhausted.  The Pierce Gambit is a  recent form,  for though White's second move is varied the resulting positions are frequently obtainable in the King's Gambit.  Other modern variations leading to interesting positions are the Quaada,  and Rosentreter Gambits.  Both spring out of  'Black's play,  and may easily be avoided. 

10 

14 

Table  82.— THE KING'S GAMBIT.      (PROPER.) 

1   P.K4,    P-K4;    2  P.KB4,    PxP. 
1  2  3  4  © 

P-Q4       (1)  P-KR4    (3)  

Q-R5ch B-K2  P.Q4 ! 

K.K2  Kt-KB3  (4)    PxP pTQi Kt-KB3  P-Q3  QxP      (7) 

PxP P-Q3  PQ4  Q-K2ch Kt-KB3  B Q3       (2)    P-Q4  !  B-Kt5  B-K3 

Kt-KB3  P-B4  PxP BxP Kt-QB3 

B-KKt5  P-QKt3  KtxP BxPch Q-Q2 

P.B4  Kt-KB3  P-B4  RxB P-Q3 

QKt-Q2  B-EKt5  Kt-K6     (6)    BxKt B-Q3 

K-Q2  K-Q2  BxKt QxB KtR3 

Q-B7ch BxKt PxB QxRch Kt-QB3 

QK2  QxB P-Q4  P-KKt3  (6)    Kt-QKt5 

Kt-K5ch Kt-Q2  B-KKt5+  0-0-0 

KB2  PQKt3  KtxB B-KB4  PQR4  PxKt KKt3  Kt-B3  KtxP 

^^     B-K2  Kt-K2.  B^^tF io     ^xP K-B2  QrQ2 

^^     OOO  0-0  R-K8qch+" 

P-QR3  —  B-Q3 

^^     KR-Ksq-Kt.Ki3 

B-Q2   — 

(1)  A form of the openirig given in Polerio's MS.,  hence called the Polerio Gambit, 
This Col.  runs as played Ensor v.  McDonnell.  Compare the Steinitz Gambit.  A game Fraser v.  Birks runs:—  3  Kt-QB3,  Qch ;  4  K-K2,  P-Q4  ;  5  KtxP,  Bch ; 
6  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3 1 

(2)  Or  5  . . ,  Q-K2ch to draw,  but White might prevent this by  5  Kt-KB3,  B-^KKt5 ; 
6  P X  P,  or P-K5  (Fraser).  Black may also play  5  . . ,  B-Kt5ch ,  6  Kt-B3,  Kt-Q2  (or BxKtch;  Fraser);  7  P-B4,  0-0-0.  8  K-Q2.  Kt.B3;  with a  good game  (Gattie). 
The Col.  is Ensor v.  Bardeleben. 

(3)  The King's Rook's Pawn Gambit.  3  P-KKt3  may also be played  :  a game Orchard V.  Thomson runs  3  ...  PxP;  4KKt-B3,  PxP;  5  B-B4,  KKt-B3;  6RxP, 
KtxP;  7R-K2,  P-Q4;  8  BxP,  QxB;  9  Kt-B3,  Q-KR4 ;  10  Kt x  Kt,  Q-R8ch ; 
11  K-B2,  Q X  Q  ;    12  Kt-B6ch,  K-Qsq ;    13  R mates- 

(4)  If4Q-Kt4,  P.Q4-f. 

(5)  If?  ..,B-Kt5ch;    8K-B2I  (Handbuch) 

(6)  White brings out QKt,  and Castles on Q's side,  with a  good development although he has lost the exchange. 

(7)  Or  4  . . ,  B-Q3  may be played. 

162  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  83.--THE KING'S GAMBIT,      (PEOPERO e 

8 

10 

1P.?4,   P.K4;    2E.KB4,PxP;    SKt-KBS.    (1) 

6                    7                     8  9  10 

FqI       (2)     FKB4             Kt-KBS Kt-K2  (9)    P-KKt4 

PxP PxP      (5)     P-K5       (7)  P-Q4  P-Q4     (11) 

B-Q3       (3)     P-Q4               Kt-R4  Kt-Kt3  P-Kt5 

P>Q4               P-Q4                B-K2  B-QB4  Kt-B3    (12) 

P-KKt4           B-Q3               P.KKt4  (8)  P-QB PxKt P-B4       (4)     P-QB4 !  (6)     KtxP  0-0  QxP FQKt3                                  QxKt B-K3  (10)    B^Kt5! 

B-Q3   —                               BxKt P-Q5  BxP IT"                           QxKtP B-Kt5  P-Q4 

Q-B3  B-K2  0-0-0  (13) 

QxQ Q-B3  BxKt BxQ  —  Kt-Q4  PxB 

3xB Kt-K2 

KtxB—        B-Ksq 

_        B-K3    + 

(1)  U  3  Q-Kt4,  P.Q4-nofrP-KKt4  on accouiit of  4  P-KIU.  If  3  Q-BS,  P.Q3  or Kt.QB3.  If  3  Q.K2  (or B3)  or  3  Kt-K2,  or  3  Kt-QB3,  Q-R5ch,  &c.  See p.  161,  note U 

(2)  3..,P.Q3;  4B-B4,B-K3;   5BxB,PxB;   6P-Q4-I-. 

(3)  4  .V,  P-KKM;  6  P-Kfl4,  P-KKt5;  6  Kt-KtS transposes into a  variation of the Allgaier Gambit not favourable  'for the first player.  4  . . ,  Q x  P;  5  Kt-B3  leads into the King's Gambit declined. 

(4)  Or6P.KR4!    (C.'B.  R.) 

(5)  Or4P-K5,P-Q3;  5P-KR4(ifPxP,BxP;  6'B.B4,&c.  C.E.R.),PxP; 
6KtxP,B-Q3;    7P-Q4,  BxKt=. 

(6)  Or6B.Q3,  Q-B3;   7Kt-B3,P-B3;   8  0.0,'BxP;   9Kt.K61    (Fraser.) 

(7)  Or  4  P-Q3,  Kt.R4 ;  5  B1K2,  P.KKt4  ;  6  Kt x  P,  Q x  Kt ;  7  B x  Kt,  Q x  P ; 
8B-B3,  Q-Kt4;    9Q-Q2  =  .    If  4  Kt-B3,  B.Kt5 ;    5P-K5,  BxKt;  6QPxB,Kt.K6; 

7  B X  P,  P-Q4 ;    8  P x  P  (e p),  Kt x  QP  (Pierce) :  Salvioli gives  4  . . ,  P-Q4 1 

(8)  Or  5  ..,  P-KKt3;  6  P.Q4,  B-Kt2;  7  0-0,  P.Q3;  8  Kt-BS,  0-0,  &c.:  if 
9Kt-K8q,  PxP.    (Tchigorin V.  Steinitz) 

(9>  If  3  . . ,  Kt-QB3 ;    4  P-KR4,  and Black cannot hold the Gambit Pawn. 

(10)  6..,B-Kt5;  7P-KR3,  B.R4;  8  liKKt4,  PxP en pas;  9BxPc,h,KxB; 
10  Kt-Kt5dch,  K-Ksq ;    llQxB  +  . 

(11)  4Kt-B3.(if)P-Kt5;  5Kt-K5,  Qch;  6 P-KKt3,  P xP ;  7  Q x P, P-Kt7  (dch) ; 

8  QxQ,  PxR  (queens);    9  Q.R5,  &c.:    or  7  ..,  QxQt;  8KtxQ,  P-Q4;  9B-R3» 
P X  KP ;   10  Kt-B6ch,  K-Qsq,  &c.     (Quaada's Gambit). 

(12)  5Kt-K5,  Qch;  6P-KKt3,  PxP;  7  Q x P,  P-Kt7  dch ;  8  QxQ,  PxR  (Q): 
j9Kt-QB3:  or7..,QxQ!;  8KtxQ,P-Q4,  9Kt-K3,PxKP;  10PxP,Kt.QB8 
or Kt-KB3.    (Rosentreter's Gambit.) 

(13)  Or  8  P-K5.    The Havdbuch gives this Col-  as Soere&seo's Gambit. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS.  ISB Table   84.--THE KIl P.K4,P-K4;     2P-K 

^G'S GAME IT.      (PROPI 
3  Kt-KB3, 

^R.) 

1 

B4,   PxP; 

P.KKt4. 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

4 

B-B4 
P-KR3 

B-Kt2     (5) 

5 

Kt-K5 

P-Q4 
P-Q3       (6) 

P-QB3 
P-Kt5 

00! 

P-Qa R-B2 

6 

P-Q4 

P-B3 

0-0 

P-Q4       (9) 

P-Q3 

P-Kt5  (dia.) 

PxKt P-KR3  (10) 

7 

Kt-Q3 

(1) 

QBxP    (7) 

QxP Kt-H3   (11)  (dia.  p.  1C4) 

Kt.KB3 

PxKf Kt-KR3      ' 

Kt-K2   (12) 

8 

P^K5 

(2) 

0-0 

P-Q4 

Kt.K2   (13) 

PxP 

(3) 

B-K3 

0-0 

QKt-B3 

B-Kt5    (16) 

9 

PxP 

(4) 

BxB QBxP QBxP  (14) 

QBxP B-KKt5 

PxB P-Q3+    (b) 

PxB BxKt Q-Q2 

Q-Kt3 

KtxP RxB 

10 

g-K2 

Kt-Q2 

B.Kt5 

PxB 

0-0 

QxKPch P-B3 

RxP    (17) 

11 

Kt.K5 
Q-R5 

Q-K2    +■" 

Q-Q2     (16) 
B-Kt5 

0-0       (18) 
Q-KBsq 

12 

Kt-B4  + 

4- 

Q-Ksq    (19) 

(1)  OrTKtxP.RxKt;  SBxRch.KxB;  &  P-KR4,  Kt-KB3 ;  •  10  P x  P,  P x  P ; 
11  P-KKt3,  B-Kt5 ;    12  Q-Q3,  Q-K2+. 

(2)  If  8  Kt.B3,  Q-K2  or B-KS. 

(3)  If8  ..,P.Q4;  9B-Kt5ch,  P.B3(orB-Q2;  10PxKt,BxB;  11Q-K2ch+); 
10  PxKt,  PxB;    11P-KR4,  QxP;    12  PxP,  QxP;   13  Q-K2ch-f . 

(4)  If9KtxP,  B.KB4. 

(5)  For  4  . . ,  P.KtS see the Muzio Gambit.  If  4  . . .  P-Q3  White may play P-KK4  : 
if4..,P.KB8;  SK&xP-f:  if  4  . . ,  B.B4,  or Q-K2  ;  5  P-Q4  +  :  if  4  ..,  P-QB3  ; 
6  P-KR4.  or  0-0. 

(6)  Or  5  . . ,  P-KR3  ;  6  P.B3,  Kt-K2 ;  7  0-0,  P.Q4 :  7  ....  P.Q3  transposes into Col.  21.    If  5  . . ,  P-Kt5 ;    6  Kt-Ktsq  (Tschigorin),  or  0-0,  or QB x  P,  or Kt.K5. 

(7)  7  Q-Kt3  is also bad for White.  Salvioli gives  7  Kt-Ktsq,  and prefers therefore 
6  . . ,  P-KR3 1.  Another variation is  7  0-0,  P x  Kt ;  8  Q x  P,  Q-B3 :  if now  9  Q-R5 
Q-KtB;  orif  9P-K5,  PxP;  10  PxP,  Q-QKt3ch;  or if Q'QBxP,  Kt-BS  (C.  E.  R.) 
if8..,B-R3;  9Q-R5,  Q-K2;  10  QBxP,  BxB;  .11  RxB,  &c. :  ifS...  B-K3: 
9  BxB,  PxB;    10  Q-R5ch,  &c. 

(8)  10  Q-Kt3  (or BxKt),  K-Bsq ;  11  B-KKt5,  P-KB3;  12  E.B4,  Kt-BB ; 
18Kt.Q2,  Kt-K2;    14  QR-Ksq,  Kt.Kt3 ;    16  Kt-BS^  Kt x  B ;    16  KtxKt.  P-KB4-|.. 

164 

THE KING'B GAMBITS. 

(9)  If  6  P-KKt3,  P-Kt5  ;  7  Kt-R4,  P-B6 ;  8  P-Q4,  Kt-Q;B3 ;  9  P-BS|,  Q.K2+, 
See Col.  21  for the proper time to play P-KKt3. 

(10)  'If  6  . . ,  B-K3 ;  7  B x  B,  P x  B ;  8  P-B3,  P-K4  ;  9  Q-Kt3,  P-l(t3 ;  10  Q-KGcb. 
Another variation,  lively but hazardous,  is  6  ..,  Kt-KR3;,  7  KtxP,  QxKt; 
8  QBxP,  Q.Kt3r  9BxKt,  QxB;  10  B x Poh.  K-Qsq ;  11  P.K5.  B-Q2  ;^  12  PxP. 
QxQP;   13  P.B3,  &c. 

(11)  If  7  P-KKt3,  P-Kt5  !  (if  7  . . .  Fx P ;  8  B x  Pch) ;  8  Kt-R4  (or  8  QB x  P), 
P.B6;  9  P-B3,  B-B3  (or Kt.K2  or Q-K2) ;  lOKtxP,  PxKt;  llQxP,  Q-K2+. 
If  7  Kt.R4,  P X  Kt ;    8  R x  P.  Kt-KB3  +  .    If  7  P-K5,  P.Q4  ;  8  B-Kt3.   See diagram. 

(12)  Or  7  . . ,  Kt-QB3  ;  8  Kt-K2,  &c.  The Handbuch gives  7  . . ,  B-K3  as betteR", 
6r Black may play  7  . .,  P.QB3 ;  8  Kt-K2,  B-K3,  &c.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(13)  If  8  K-Rsq,  0-0.  If  8  P-KKt3,  P-Kt5;  9  QBxP,  PxKt;  10  Q>«P, 
B X  Pch ;    11  K-Rsq,  B-K3+ .    (Ranken v.  Wavte.) 

(14)  Or  9  P-B3  I  (C.  E.  R.)  This leads into a  variation of the Pierce Gambit. 
If  9  P-KKt3,  P-Kt5 ;  10  Kt x  P,  P x  Kt ;  11  Q x  P.  B x  Pch ;  12  K.Rs(i,  Kt.K4,  &c. 
(Pierce.) 

(15)  Or  11  <. ,  Kt.Kt3 ;  12  Kt x  Kt,  P x  Kt ;  13  Q-R4.  &o. 

(16)  If  8  ..,  P-Kt5;  9  KtxP.  PxKt;  lOQ^P.  0-0;  11  P.B3.  &o.  118... 
Kt-Kt3,  White continues by  9  P-KKt3,  &c. 

(17)  Or  11  KtxP I  (C.  E.R.) 

(18)  Orll..,P-Q4;  12  PxP,  KtxP;  13  BxKt,  QxB;  14'P-B4.  Whether th«. 
BP be taken or not the QR is brought into the attack. 

(19)  Continued  13  R-Kt4,  Kt-Q2  ;  14  Q-B3.  K-Rsq ; .  15  R-KBsq threatening Q-Kt3,  &c.  The method of sacrificing a  piece given in Cols.  14»16  is seldom adopted, 
but may be played for.  variety,  and offers chances. 

(Col.  12.) 

'i^^/m^im^ 

9    W^    9    9 

J    ^1 

After Black's  6th move. 

(Col.  14.) 

=  '4^}/a  -^  ^Ml e^  mm.  ^  f s 

111 

Ig^        ^<p  \X*-^^  ^  ^*^ 

After White's  7th move. 

Table  85— THE KING'S GAMBIT.      (PROPER.) 

P-K4.   P-K4;     2P-K.34,PxP;    3  Kt .  K B  3.  P-K Kt4  ; 
4B-B4.   B-Kt2;     50-0.   P-Q3;     6P-Q4.P-KR3. 

16                   17                   18                    19                   20 
.     P.B3  (dia.  p.  168)        '  ^ 

12 
18 
14 

'     Q.K2  Kt-KB3? 

P.K5       (1)  Kt-RB P-KR4  Q"^^^     W P-K5 

PxP P-R3       (4)  P-Kt5      (6)    ^^-^^  PxP 

^     KtxKP  (2)  ftt-B2 QBxP    (7)    ^-^^^  Q-Kt3 

^     BxKt B-K3  P^>rKt Kt-Kt3  Q-O RKsq BQ3  QxP  ^^^  KtxKP-f 

^"     WKS i{FKB3  Bl(3  ^^^  (Toi BxB PQKt3 1  KtQ2  ^^^'^^ 

^^     PxB QKt-Q2  BxB P-QB3+ 

RxU P-KR3    (5)  KtxB Kt-QB3  Kt-Kt3  Kt^Q2 

R-Ksq     (3)  PB4  BxQP Q.Q.O Kt-R4  PxB Q.Kt4  R-Ksq KtxPch R-Ksq Kt-Kte K-Qsq P-QKt3  P-QR4  KfcxBPch 

^^     Kt-B3  +  0-0-f K-Bsq     (8) 

(1)  If  8  R-Ksq,  P-Kt5.  Lowenthal v.  Way te played  8  P-QKt3,  B-K3 ;  9  B.R3, 
&c. 

(2)  Salvioli suggests  9  R-Ksq !,  P.K5 ;  10  Q-B2,  &c. 

(3)  13  Q-R5ch,  K-Bsq  ;  14  R-Ksq,  Kt-B3  ;  15  Q-K2,  QR-Ksq  ;  16  Kt.R.<^ 
(Wormald),  P-R3I;    17  Kt-B4.     (Hull v.  Leeds.) 

(4)  If8  ..,Kt-QB3;  9  Q-R4,  B-Q2  ;  10  Kt-Kt5. 

(5)  Petersburg v.  Moscow.  U  12  B-R3,  P-B4  ;  13  P-R3,  Kt-R4 ;  14  P-Q5, 
B X  RP ;  15  P X  B,  Kt-Kt6 ;  16  R-B2,  B x  P  ;   17  R-Ktsq,  P-KR4,.&c.    {Handbuch.) 

(6)  8..,  PxP;  9KtxP,  QxKt;  lORxP,  Q-K2;  llRxP,  QxP;  12  RxB. 
Ac.  If8..,B-Kt5;  9  Q^KtS.  If  8  ...  Kt.QB3;  9  PxP,  PxP;  lOKtxP,  QxKt; 
llBxPch,  &c. 

t7)  Or9Kt.R2»  P-B6;  10  E-Kt.3,  &c. 

(8)  15  . . ,  K-Ksq draws.  The Handbuch,  continues  16  P-K5,  R-Ktsq ;  17  Q-Kt4, 
R-B2  ;  18  Q-B5,  R-KRsq  ;  19  Q-Kt6-I-. 

(9)  If  8  or  9  P.KKt3,  P-Kt5-f . 

<10)  10  ..,Q-KsqI;  11  Kt.Kt6,  P.Kt4 ;  12  BxKtP,  Q.K5;  13  Kt-K5,  B-1It2j 
14  Kt-B3.    (Blackburne v.  Mason.) 

16e THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  86.— THE 
>.K4,   P-K4;     2  P- 

KI2 
KI 

!TG'S GAME IT.    (pbop: 

3  Kt-E38 

ER.) 

1 1 

U,  PxP; 

;,  P.Kiai, 

4 

l B.B4,   B-Kt2;    5 

0- 

■0,  P.Q3; 

6  P.Q4, 

P KB3. 

21                    22 

23 

24 

26 

7 

P.BS  (dia.  p.  168) 
Kt-K2 

B-K3 

8 

P-KKtS ! 

BxB P-KtS      (1) 

Kt-KtS PxB 

9 

Kt-R4     (2) 

Kt-Ksq Q-Kt3 

P-^Kt3 

P-B6 

0-0 

Q-Bsq P-Kt5 

10 

KtxP     (8) 

Q-R5 

P-KR4 

Kt-R4 

PxKt K.R2 

P-Kt5 

P--B6 

n QxP P-KR4 

Kt-R2  — 

KtxP 

0-0 

Q-K2       (9) 

P-Kt6-PxKt 

12 

BxPch  (4) 

Kt-B3 

QxP K-Rsq K-B2 

PxRP Q-K2         ^ 

18 

Q.R5       (5)     Q.R5 

PxBP— 

Q.R5ch Kt-Ktsq  (6)     Kt-Ktsq  (8) 

— 

K-Qsq     ' 

14 

P.K5       (7)     Kt.RS R-B7 

PxP Q.K2 

Kt-KB3 

PxP  —         BxKtch I 

Q-Kt6 

15 

(i.E2   -  •     RxB 

0-Ksq 

16 

B-B7+ 

RxB QxQ.    (10) 

(1)  If  8  . . ,  P X  P  ? ;   9  QB X  P  (Blackburne),  or KB x  Pch may  "be played. 

(2)  OQBxP.PxKt;  10 QxP, 0-0;  11  Kt.Q2, B-K3 ;  1^P-Q5,B.Q2;  ISQ-KS, 
&c:    if llBxRP,  BxB;    12  BxPch,  K-R2;    13  Q-R5,  Kt.Q2+. 

(3)  10  P-KR3,  P-KR4 ;  11  Kt x  P,  P x  Kt ;  12  Q x  P,  B x  P ;  13  Q x  Pch,  K-Q2 ; 
U R-B2,  Q-KBsq  +  .  Or  10  Kt.R3,  0-0;  11  B.B4,  QKt-B3 ;  12  Q-Q2.  If 
10  Kt-B5,  KtxKt;  11  PxKt,  QBxP;  12  R-Ksqch,  K-Bsq;  13  Q-Kt3,  B-Kt3 ; 
UQxP,  Kt-Q2+.    (C.E..R.) 

(4)  If  12  Q-R5,  K.R2 ;  13  B BP,  Kt-Ktsq,  and position game as in Col.  22. 
Black may however play  12  . .,  B-K3+. 

(5)  13  B-Kt5,  RxB;  U QxR,  PxB;  15  Q-R6o'h,  K-Ktsq;  (if)  16  QxP, 
QKt-B3orB-K3+. 

(6)  13..,Q-Q2;    UBxRP,QrR6;    15  B.B4dch,  Q x  Q ;    16BxQ  =  . 

(7)  UBxKt,  RxRch;    15KxR,  KxB;    16  B x P,  Q-Bsqch  ;    17  B.B4=. 

(8)  13  . . ,  Q'Q2 ;  14  B V  P,  Q^R6  (if B  x B  :  15  R-BG);  15  B-B4dch,  Q x  Q : 
16  B X  Q,  QKt-B3  ;    17  Kt-Q2  !  = :    if  17  K^  R3,  Kt x  P.!,  &c. 

(9)  11  . .,  P-KB3  preferable here and on ibe next move.     (C.  E.  R.) 

(10)  17  RxQ,  (if)  KtxP,  18  BxKP,  Kt-Kt4;    19  RxBP+. 

Table  87.— THE KING'S GAMBIT,     (PROPER.) 

P.K4,   P-K4;    2P.KB4,PxP;    3  Kt-K B3,   P-K Kt  4  ; 
4  B-B4,  B-Kt2;    5  0-0,   P-QB;    6  P-Q4,   P-KRS. 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

26 
P.B3  (dia.  p. 
Kt:Q2 
P-KKt3 
P-Kt5 
QBxP    (1) 
PxKt QxP Kt-Kt3 
B-K5       (2) 
Kt-li3 
BxKt QxB      (3) 
BxPch K.K2 
QKt2 
Q-K't4 
P-KR4 

27 

168) 

28 

Kt-QB3  (9) 
Q.Kt3   (10) 

80 

QKt-Q2 

Kt-Kt3 
B-Kt3 

PxP Q-K2 
Kt-R3 

(11) 

Kt-KB3(15) 
P-K6 

B-R6 
R'B2 

(5) 

B-RO R-B2 

Kt.B3 
B-Q3. 

PxP KtxP PxP BxPch  (6) 

KtxB Q-R4ch K-Q2 
PxP Kt-KR4?(12) 
B-Q2  (dia.) 

KtxKt PxKt P-QB3 
QxKt 

(7) 

0-0 
B-B2 

(13; 

Kt-R2 
Q-Kt3- 

Q-K2 
K-R2 

PxP BxP 

(B) 

P-R3 
Q-B4 

0-0 
Kt-B3 

B-K3 
BxB Kt-B3 
QKt-Q2 

QxB  — 

Kt-R4- 
B-Kt3 

Q.Kt5 
Kt-R3 

(4) 

Q-Q2 
Kt-R4 

K-Rsq pR-Ksq Q-Qsq P-KKt3 

P-Kt.5 

Kt-R4. 

P-QB3  (16) 

0-0 
Kt-B5 

P-B6 
Q-Q3 

—        Kt-B3    (14) 

(1)  If9Kt.KsqorK4.  P.B6;   10  KtxP,  Px^^t;    11  Q x P,  KKt-BS,  &c. 

(2)  11  BxPch ?KxB;    12  B-K5ch,  Kt-B3 ;    13  BxKt,  BxB;    U P-K5.  <&c. 

(3)  If  12  ..,BxB;    13  B-Kt3. 

.  (4)  Black may continue  16..,  B.K3;  (if)  17  R-B4,  Q-R6 ;  18  Q-KB2,  QR-KBsq ; 
19  R-KBsq,  B-Q2,  &q.  Or  -Black might even play  16  ..,  R-Bsq and if  17  R-B4, 
R x  B  = .  (C.  E.  R.)  If  16  . .  i B-Bsq ;  17  R-B4,  Q-Kt2 ;  18  B-RS,  K-Qsq ;  19  R-B7, 
Q-Ktsq;    20Kt-Kt5+:. 

(5)  Or  9  . .,  P-Kt5;    10  Kt-B4,  Kt-K2,  &c. 

(6)  OrllPxP,Q-Bsq(ifll..,Q.Q2;  12KtxP,P.xKt,'  13ExP-|-);  12BxPch. 
K-Qsq ;    13  Kt-R2,  Kt-B3 ;    14  B-Kt6,  &o. 

(7)  Or  11  . .,  Q.Q2I to castle QR.    (C E.  B) 

(8)  l3...P-Xti5;   13  Kt-Kfiq,  Q-B5 ;   14  Q.K2  (or Q.Q31,  wd EtrKt2. 

IL. 

^68 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

i 

(9)  If  7  ..,  P-QB3?;  8  P-KKtS,  P-Kt5;  9  QBxP,  PxKt;  10  QxP.  Q.Bd" 
(ifB-K3;  11  BxB,  PxB;  12BxQP+);  11  Q-B5,  Q-Kt3;  12  QxQ,  PxQ: 
13  B X  QP,  Kt.B3 ;    14  Kt-Q2 + . 

(10)  Or  8  Q-I14 1,  K-Bsq  (if  8  ,. . ,  B-Q2 ;    9  Q-Kt3,^nd if  8  . . ,  Q-Q2 ;  a B-KtS) + . 
If  8  P-KKt3,  Kt.Il4;    Q PxP,  B-B6;    10  B-B2,    KtxB;    11    Q-R4ch,    Q-Q2; 
12QxKt:    or  8  ..,P.Kt5;    9QBxP,  PxKt;    10  QxP,  Kt-KB3;    (if)  11  P-KS.^' 
B^Kt5;    12  Q-K3,.PxP;    13  PxP,  Kt.Q4+.    A game Lowenthal -v.  Wayte rune 
8..,P-Kt;5;    9Kt.R4,  P.B6;   10  KtxP,  PxKt;    llQxP,  Kt-B3;  12Kt-Q2,0-Od 
13Q-B4,P.Q4;  14P-K5.JKt-R2;  15  B-Q3,  Kt.Kt4,  <feo.    (Or  15  . . ,  Q.Kt4 1  0.  E.  I^.) 

(11)  Or8..,Q-Q2. 

(12)  Or  10.,,  0-0 1  to foUow with P-QKt3. 

(13)  If  11"  ..,  P-Kt5;    12  Kt-Ksq,  KtxP;     13  PxKt,  BxPch;    14  K- 
Kt-Kt6ch;    15  PxKt,  PxP;    16 B-Kt5ch,  P.B3 ;    17QxKtP.  &c 

(14)  Steinitz v.  Neumann.    Won by Black after about eleven hours*  play. 

(15)  8  . . ,  Kt-R4  ;  9  Q.R4ch,  P-QB3 ;  10  B x  Pch,  K x  B ;  11  P.QKt4,  P-QKtl ;] 
12QxKt,  QxQ;    13PxQ,  &c. 

(16)  14  Q.B2  (or P.K61  C.  E.  R.),  Q.Kt3ch;  15  K-Rsq,  3K3  (or R.K,sq!; 
16B.Q3,Kt-Bsq;  O.E.R.);  16-B-Q3,P.KBi;  17PxPenpas,KtxP;  18P.KR4. 
Kt-B4,  &c. 

(Cole,  le to  30.) 

■i'li Brti 

#^# 

I 

■^hI 

11 

m ^^1  ^,,m m   mM sill i 

After White's  7th move. 

After White's  11th move. 

Table    88.— THE KING'S GAMBIT.     (PROPER.) 

P.K4,   P-K4;    2  P-KB4,   PxP;    3  Kt-KB3,   P-KKt4; 
4B-B4.  B-Kt2;     5  P-KR4,  P-KR3  (1);     6P.Q4,  P.Q3. 

p 

81 

32 

33 

34 

35 

7 

Kt-B3 

Q-Q3 
Kt-QB3 ! 

PxP PxP P-B3  r P-Kt5      (7) 

P-QB3 

(2) 

Q PxP PxP RxR Kt-Ktsq  (8) 

Q-Kt3 

PxP PxP BxR Q-K2       (9) 

Q-K2 

9 

RxR BxR RxR Q-Q3       (6) 
Kt-KR3 ! 

Q-K2 
Kt-K^3 

0-0 

BxR PxKt 

10 

Kt.K5 

(3) 

P-K5 

P-KKt3 

P-K5 

RxP PxKt B-Kt2      (5) 

Q-K2 

PxP Kt-QB3 

11 

Q-R5 

Kt-B3 

KI-B3 

PxP QBxP Q-B3 

KI-R3 

P-QB3 

Kt.R4  + 

Kt-Q8q+ 

12 

PxP Q-Kt2 

PxP PxP P-Kt5 

(10) 

PxP 

19 

P-K6 

Kt-Q5 

Kt-KKt5 

BxP 

(4) 

K-Bsq P-B34- 

14 

BxB Kt-B3 

Kt X  KtP QxKt 

15 

BxPch K-K2     ' 

BxP Q-R5ch 

16 

Q-Kt6 
QxB  + 

P-KKt3 
QR8ch 

17 

K-Q2 
Q-Kt7ch  4- 

(1)  5  ...  P-Kt5;  6  Kt-Kt5,  Kt-KR3;  -7  P-Q4,  P-KB3 ;  8  BxP.  PxKt; 
9BxKtP,  B-B3;    10  B x  Kt,  Bx Pch  ;    11  K-Q2,  B-Kt4ch  ;    12K-Q3=. 

(2)  If  7  ...  B-K3:  8  Q-K2.  If  7  ...  P-Kt5?;  8  Kt-Ktsq.  If  7  ..,  Kt-QB3?; 
8  Kt-K2 

(3)  The Calabrese Gambit.  If  10  K-B2,  P-Kt5  (or B-Kt2,  or Kt-KB3);  11  Q-Rsq, 
B-Kt2.  If  10P.KKt3,  P-Kt5;  11  QBxP,  PxKt;  12  Q x  P,  BxP.;  13  BxPch, 
K X  B ;  14  B-K5disch,  K-K2  ;  15  B x  B,  Q-Bsq-l- .  After  10  Kt-K5  Black may also playBxKt+.     (Fraser.) 

(4)  13  ...  Kt-B3;    14  Px Pch,  K-K2-I-. 

(5)  10  . .,  K-Bsq .  11  Q-R7,  B-Kt2 .  12  Q-R5,  Kt-R3  (or P-Q4  ;  13  B-Q3,  P-B3. 
C.  E.  R).    13  KtxP,  B-Kt5  +  . 

(6)  Or  9  K-B2,  to play Q-Rsq. 

(7)  Or  7  . . ,  P-B3,  or  7  . . ,  Q-K2  reverting to Col.  18.  The Handhuch recommends 
7  . . ,  Kt-Q2  thence to Kt3  to release the QB and castle on Q's side if possible. 
7  . . ,  Kt-QB3  ,  8  Q-Kt3  runs into Col.  35  after a  few moves 

(8)  If  8QBxP,  PxKt;  9  Q x  P.  Kt.KB3  ;  10  0-0  r or9.  ,B-K3;  10  Kt.Q3 
•or P-Q5).  Kt.K2;    11P-R5,  BxB;    12  Kt x  B,  P-Kt4  ,    IS Kt-KS.  QKtB3  + . 

(9)  Or  8  . . ,  B-B3, 

(10)  If  11  ...  BxPch;    12PxB,KtxP;    13  Q-R4cb-»- 

17a T^HE KING'S GAMBITS. 

SECTION II THE SALVIO GAMBIT. 

I P-K4,   P.K4;     2  P-KB4,  PxP;    3  Kt-KBS,  P.KKt4; 
4  B-B4,    P.Kt5. 

iSArtj^i!^.,,,,,,, 

THP Salvio is one of the oldest variations of the King's Gambit.  It has heen traced to a  Peninsular writer quoted by Polerio and Salvio. 
The move  4  ...,  P-Kt5,  is quite as good analytically as  4  ...,  B-Kt2,  but the second player must be prepared to meet the Muzio attack  (Sec.  8)  as well as Salvio's continuation  6  Kt-K5.  After this move,  Black gets an important check. by  5  ...,  Q:R5,  with the choice of four lines of play, 
viz. :— Kt-KB3,  Kt-KRa,  P-B6,  and Kt-QB3.  6  ,.Kt-KB3,  given by Salvio,  leaves a  Pawn and Rook to be taken in consideration of a  strong counter attack  (Col.  1).  6  ...,  Kt-KR3  is better play,  according to present lights,  but Black,  after White's reply  7  P-Q4,  must not follow it up with the natural move  7  ...,'P-Q3,  but play  7  .  .,  P-B6.  (Cols.  5-15.)  The advance of this Pawn on the  6th move is the Cochrane Gambit,  which has been much admired by earlier writers  **  for the brilliant features of interest it never fails to present "  (Cols.  17-20.)  6  ...,  Kt-QB3  has been worked out by Herr Czank. 

The Salvio was adopted by Steinitz in preference to the Muzio Gambit for match play with Anderssen and Zukertort.  It will be seen tl\at the Gambit player's plan of campaign,  as formulated in the intro- 
duction to the King's Gambit  (p.  157),  is interrupted by Black's fourth move,  and cannot be taken up again.  The second player ought always to keep the Pawn with ai,  least an equal position.  The check with Queen at Rook's fifth,  upon which the defence rests,  may be prevented by the first player moving  4  P-KE4,  vbich is thus indicated as theoretically correct,  if not more potent than  4  BB4. 

THE KING^.S GAMBITS.  171 

Table  89.— THE SALVIO GAMBIT 

2   P.KB4,    PxP;     3   Kt  •  K B  3  ,    P.KKt4; 
P-KtSi    5   Kt-K5,   Q-R5ch.     (1) 

Kt-KB3  Kt-KR3 

Kt-QB3  (2)     P.Q4 

Kt-B3  P-Q8  P-Q4  P-B6 ! 

P-Q4  Kt-Q3  KBxP B-B4 

KtxKt P-B6  P-Kt6  P-b6  PxPch PxKt P-KKt3  QBxP Kt-Q3  KxP 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 

Kt-R4  Q-K2  !  (4)     Kt-Kt5  PxPch P-Q3 

Q-Q5       (3)  Kt-B3  (5)     QQ2  KxP B  x Kt     (8) 

Kt-KtGch P-QB3  KtxPch Q-R6ch BxB K-Ktsq P-KR3  K-Ktsq K-Ktsq KtQ3 

KtxR PxP BKt2  P-Kt6  Q-R6ch Q  X BPch BxKt Q-K3  Kt-B4  KB2 

K-Qsq BxB Q-R4  PxPch B-K6ch BxP QxP Kt.Q2  --  RxP K-Ksq B-B4ch B-Kt2  —  Q-Kt5ch  (6)    P-Kt6  + 

KxKt Kt-K2  QxQ R-Bsq Kt-Q2  KtxQ B-KKt3  Kt-B2  —  R-Kt2 

Q-R3  Kt-B3—  P-QB3 

Q-Q5+  B.Kt3     (7) 

(1)  6  ..,Kt-KR3;  6  KtxKtP  (0-0  !).  Qch  (or P-Q4) ;  7  Kt.B2,  P.Q4  ;  8  PxP, 
P.B6,  &c. 

(2)  7  Q-Ksq,  QxQ;  8  KxQ,  KtxP,  or P-Q3,  or Kt-QB3  =  .  Handhuch.  If 
7  KtxBP,  P-Q4;-8  KtxR,  PxB  +  .    If  7  BxPch,  K-K2 ;   8  B-KtS,  P.Q3  +  . 

(3)  Or  10  -Q-Ksq I     (C.  E.  R.) 

(4)  Showing the inferiority of P-Q3  before P-B6.  If  9  . . ,  Q-R6  the White Kt at Q3  threatens the Q  on two squares.  (W.  W.)  White may then continue  10  K-KsQ, 
Q-R4  ;   11  Kt.B4+  :    if  10  . .,  Q-Kt7  ;   11  Kt-B2  followed by B-Bsq+. 

(5)  10  Kt-B2  (Steinitz),  B-KS ;  11  Kt-QR3,  BxB;  12  KtxB,  Q-K3+.  •  Gossip 
^ives  10  K-B2,  B-K3  ;   11  B x  B,  P x  B  = . 

(6)  13  ..,  R-Ktsqch;  14  Kt-Kt2,  Q-Kt6 ;  15  Q-Bsq,  B-K3 ;  16  BxB,  PkB| 
17  BxKt,  BxB;   18  K-Rsql     (Steinitz v.  Fraser.) 

(7)  Steinitz v.  Young.     Black should now reply P-KR4. 

(8)  10  Kt-Q8,  B.Kt2;  11  Kt.B2=s.    (Gossip.)     See col.  6. 

II 

*172  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  90.— THE SALVIO GAMBIT, 

1  P.K4,  P-.K4;    2P.KB4,  PxP;    a^J^l-KB3,   P-KKt 
4  B-B  4 ,  P .  Kt  5  ;    5  Kt  •  K  5  ,  Q  •  R  5  ch  ;    6  K-B sq  ,  Kt-K R3  ; 
7   P-Q4,  P.B6! 

6                    7                    8                    9  10 

BB4  Kt-B3  P-KKt3  Q-Ksq P-Q8  P-Q3  Kt-B3  Q-R6ch QxQch Kt-Q3  Kt-Q3  B-B4  K-B2  KxQ PxPch PxPch  (3)     P-Q3  -Q-KtTch Fx? 

KxP KxP KtxKt K-K8  R-Ktsq Kt-B3     (1)     B-Kt2  PxPch P-KB4!(5)  P^Q3 

B-KKt3  Kt-B4  KxP Kt-B3     (6)  Kt-Q3 

Q.K2  Kt-B3  PxKt P-B3  Kt-Ktsq Kt-B2  B-K3  R-KBsq B-Q3       (7)  RxP B-Kt2  0-0  B-Q2  P-Q3  P.'KR44 

P-B3  Q-Q2  QQ2  Kt-B4 

^^    B-Q2  K.Rsq+        Bl^t2  PxP Kt>Q2  QR-Ksq QKtxP 

0-0-0     (2)  0-0        (4)    Kt-B4ch 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

14 
15 
16 

K-B4 

B-R3ch Kt-Kt5 

0-0+ 

(1)  10..,B-Kt2;  11  P.B3,  Kt-B3!;.  t2  B-KKt3,  Q-K2;  13  Kt.Q2.  (Andersaeil 
▼.  Zukertort.)     See col.  6. 

(2)  Bird,  Blackburne,  and Winawer v.  L.  Paulsen,  W.  Paulsen,  and Zukertort* 

(3)  Rightly timed to stop  10  P-KKt3. 

(4)  Steinitz v.  Tschigorin. 

(5)  OrlO  ..,P.KB3;   11  Kt-Q3,  Kt-B2  ;  12  Kt-B4.  B-R3. 

(6)  llKt-Q3,PxP;  12  Kt-B4, Kt-B4ch ;  13KxKP,Q-B7;  14  Q-Ksq,  Q x QPch ; 
15  KxKtch,  B-K2;  16  KxP,  QxB;  17  KxP,  P-Kt3  ;  .  18  Q-K4,  Q x Qch  ; 
19  KxQ,  B-Kt2ch;  20  Kt-Q5,  Kt-R3  +  .  If  11  PxP,  P-Q3  ;  12  Kt-Q3,  KtxPch; 
13  K-K4,  P-B7dch  ;   14  K-B4,  B.R3ch  ;   15  K x  P,  Kt-K6ch  ;   16  K-R5y Q-R6  mate. 

(7)  12  Kt.Q3,  PxP;  13  Kt-B4;  Kt-B4ch ;  14  KxKP,  P-Q4ch ;  15  BxP, 
?;<Bch;  16  QKtxP,  Kt-Q3cb+.    {A.  S.) 

Table  91.— THE SALVIO GAMBIT. 

1   P-K4.  P-K4 
4  B-B  4 ,  P  .  Kt  5 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 

11 

Q-Q2 

(1) 

PxPch QxP P-Q3 

Kt-Q3_ 

Kt-B3 

B-K3 

B-Kt2 
P-B3 

B-Q2 
Kt-Q2 

0-0-0  + 

12 

PxP 

2  P-KB4,   PxP; 
5   Kt.K5,  Q.R5ch 
7  P-Q4,  P-B6 
13 

8  Kt-KB8,  P.KKt4; 
;    6  K-Bsq,  Kt-KES; 

P-Q3 
Kt-Q3 

PxP Kt-B2 

B-R6ch KtxB QxKtch E;-B2      (2) 

Q-Kt7cb K-K8 

Kt-Kt5ch K-B4 

B.R3ch K-B5 

Kt.K6ch BxKt Q-Kt3  mate KtxKtP(3) 

KtxKt PxKt BxP Q-Q3 

B-R6ch K-K2 

R-Ktsq+(4) 

14 

BxKt BxB PxP P.Q4 
BxP B 

PxP QxP B.R6ch K-K2 

P.KB3 

BxP PxKt R-Kt8q R-Bsq Q-KKt3 

Q.R4ch K-Ksq 

16 

KtxP    (7) 

B.R6eh K-K2 

Q^ 

Q-Q8      (8) 

FQB3 

B-Kt3 

Kt:Q2 

Kt-Q2 

OO^O' 

QR-Ksq B^B5       (6)    Kt-B4+(9) 

(1)  8Q.Q3,P.Q3;   9BxKt,  BxB;    XO KtxP  (B7),  R-Bsq;    U KtxB,  PxP d.cb+. 

(2)  Orl2K.Ksq,Kt.Kt5-f.. 

(3)*-n9  BxKt,  PxKt;    lOBxB,  KtPxP+. 

(4)  Or  12  ..,B.Kt2+. 

(5)  9Q-Ksq,  PxPch*;    10  K x  P,  Q-R6ch ;    111^-62,  P-Q3  (or B.Kt41  C.  B.  R.) 

(6)  Continued  17  Q-B2,  PxP;    18  R-Rsq,  Q.QKt4 ;   19  B x  R,  Q x  P.+ . 

(7)  Jf  11  BxPch,  K-K2;    12  QxP,  B-RGch;    13  K.K2,  Kt.Q2;    14  B-Kt^q, 
KtxKt;    15PxKt,  KR-Bsq+. 

(8)  Orl3Q-Q2.    (C.  E.  E.) 

(9)  Continued  17  Q-B3,  B-Kt5 ;    18  KR.Bsq,KtxP;    19  KtxKt,  QxKtch; 
K.B2,  Q-B5  ^     (Zukertort.) 

'i74  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  92.— THE SALVIO GAMBIT. 

I 

1  P-K4.  P.K4;    2P.KB4,  PxP;    3  Kt -K B8.  P^KKt4  ; 
4  B-B4,  P.Kt5;    5  Kt-K5,  Q-BSch;    6  K-Bsq. 
la  17  18  19  20 

6 

10 
11 
12 
18 

Kt-QB3  P-B6       (3) 

BxPcb  (1)  P-Q4  !  BxPch  (8)    KtxP(B7) 

K^M PxPch Kt:KB3  (6)  K-K2  Kt-KB3 

KtxKtch KxP BxPch  (7)  PxP      (9)    KtxR QPx'Kt Q-R6ch K.K2  P-Q3  KtxP BxKt     (2)  K-Ktsq    (4)  B-B4orKt3  BxKt Q-Ksq RxB Kt-KR3  B-Kt2  RxB PxPch Q-Ksq Q-Q3  QKsq KtxP KxP P-Kt6!  QxQ QxQch BxKt Q-R6ch P-Q3  PxQ KxQ PxB K-Ktsq P-B6  P-Q3  PxP RxP B-B4chi- 

P-KR3t BxKt R-Ktsq P-Q3 

B-Kt5  BxB P-Q3  Q-R6ch Q-K3  KtxBP Kt-B7  K-Ksq R-Kt8+  B-K6ch  (6)  R-Bsq  +  R-Kt7  + 

(1)  If  7  Kt X  BP.  P-B6  :  or  7  . . ,  B.B4  ;  8  Q-Ksq,  P.Kt6 ;  9  P-B3  U B.B7»  &o. 
If7QxP,QxQ:    8KtxQ,P.Q4;    9PxP,Kt.Q5+. 

(2)  If  9.  B-Kt3,  Kt-B3  (or  9  ...P-B6);  10  P-Q3r,  Kt.R4;  11  Q-Ksq,  P.Kt6 
(or  11  ..,  Q-Kt4) ;  (if)  12  P-KR3  or Kt-Q2,  B-KtS to be followed by B.Kt2  and K-KBsq.    The Col.  is Dublin v.  Cambridge. 

(3)  Cochrane's Gambit. 

(4)  Mr.  Ranken suggests  9  K.B2 !,  (if)  Q.RSch  ;    10  K.K2. 

(5)  14  K-Kt2,  K-Bsq ;    15  R.Bsq,  B x  P+ . 

(6)  7  . . ,  Kt-KR3  transposes into Cols.  5-15. 

(7)  Tschigorin against Winawer played  8  Kt-QB3,  P x  Pch,  &c.  If  8  B-B4,  P-Q3 ; 
9  KtxP(B7),  R-Ktsq;  10  KtxP,  BxKt;  11  BxB,  PxPch;  12  K x P,  Q-R6ch  ; 
13K-Ktsq,PxB;  14BxR,KtxB  +  .  If  8  KtxBP,  P-Q4;  9  B-KKt5,  PxPch : 
lOKxP,  Q.R6ch;  11  K-Ktsq,  PxB;  12KtxR,  P-Kt6;  13BxKt,B-R3;  14Q-K2, 
B-Kt5 ;    15  Q-Kt2,  Bch ;    16  K-Bsq,  B ch-and wins. 

(8)  If  7  P-KKt3,  Qch  ;  8  K-Ksq,  Q.Kt7 :  or  8  K.B2,  Kt-KB3,  &c.+  If  7  PxP, 
Kt-KB3  :  if  8  Q-K2,  P-Q3  ;  9  Kt x  BP,  P x  P :  if  8  Q-Ksq,  Q-R6ch :  if  8  Kt x  BP, 
P-Q4;  9KtxR,  PxBP:  if  8  P-KB3,  P x BP :  if  8  KtxKtP;  KtxKt;  9  PxKt, 
Qch-f. 

(9)  8  BxKt,  RxB;   9  PxP,  P.Q3  (P-Kt6  I C.  E.  R.);  XO KtxP,  RxKt U  8  Q.Ksq or P.Q4,  ^xPch:    it  8  B-Kt3,  B-Kt2+» 

t  &oM THE KING'S GAMBITS.  m SECTION lU THE MUZIO GAMBIT. 

Tf'Ki,    P.K4;    2  P.KB4,    PxP;    3  Kt-KBS,    P.KKt4; 
4  B.B4,    PKtS.     (Diagram p.  170.) 

IT has been shown in Section I.  that the further sacrifice of 
1  a piece by the first player of the King's Gambit,  ought  -to be accompanied by the gain of at least one additional,  move in order to obtain an equivalent in position.  This is nearly accomplished in the Muzio where Black,  instead of bringing out a  piece,  expends a  time in playing  4  . . . ,  P-Kt5  to win White's Knight.  White in return-  obtains a 
formidable attack on his opponent's King's Bishop's Pawn,  The earlier English writers,  Sarratt,  Lewis,  and Walker,  have given much attention to this opening.  Walker writes in  1841,  "While I  do not now consider the sacrifice of the Kt to be radically sound,  yet from the defence being so exceedingly difficult to discover in actual play,  I should seldom fear staking the chances of victory upon this brilliant and impetuous assault- 
The student wishing to excel will indeed play the Muzio whenever oppor- 
tunity arises,  since hardly any other opening so forcibly exemplifies the power of a  few pieces,  well combined,  over a  mass of inert force.  Could White castle,  as in Italy,  with King at once to corner,  I beheve the game sould not be defended." 

Since Walker's time the defence has been strengthened by Paulsen's move Q-KB4  (col.  23),  but the unexplored resources of the opening still leave the above remarks generally applicable.  White has three continua- 
tions, viz.: — 5  0-0,  the original Muzio;  5  P-Q4  introduced by Koch, 
and Ghulam Kassim  ;  and  5  Kt-B3,  McDonnell's variation.  Against both 
5  Kt-B3  and  6  P-Q4,  Black,  after  5  ...,  PxKt,  may play  6  ....  P-Q4, 
and Kt-KB3.  This resource is not available after  5  0-0.  A minor variation is  6  B x  Pch. 

The title of the Muzio Gambit has little connection with its author- 
ship. The opening is found in Polerio's MS.  (1590.)  Uxizio was  & 
player of later date. 

176 

THE KING'S GAMBrrS. 

^ 

Table  93.^THE MUZIO GAMBIT. 

1  P.K4.  P-K4 

6 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

Id J14 

15 

1 

BxPch KxB Kt-K5cb K-Ksq QxP Kt-B3 
0-0 

B-Kt2 
P-Q3 

B-K3 
Q-Kt3 

Q.K2-i- 

(1) 

Kt-KB3 
QxBP P-Q3       (2) 
Kfc.B4 

4 

KB4,  PxP; 
B-B4,  P-Et6 

a Kt-B3 
FxKt QxP BxPl Q-B3 
Q-B5cb K.K2 
Kt-QB3 

PBS Kt-B7 

"(8) 

QxKt Q-K5ch K-Qsq QxR— 
Kt-K2  — 

P-QB3    (4) 

BxKBPch KxB Q-R5cb   (5) 

K:Kt2 

P-Q4 

(6) 

B-K3 
BxP B-B2 
B-K5ch Kt.B3 
Q»Kt5ch B-St3  4 

3  Kt-KB3,   P.KKt4; 

4  5 

P-Q4 
PxKt QxP BxQP Kt-KB3 1 
0-0 

"(95 

B-Kt3 

B-K3 
BxB P>^B Q.R5ch  (7) 

k:q2 

P-Q4 

BxQP i 
Kt-KB31  I 
0-0  1 

KB3  I BxKBPoh  * 
KxB BxP    (10) 

QxPoh B.K3 

Q.B3 
0-0 
Ql^tS" 
Q-Rg Kt.QB3  (8) 

Q-K4 
B.B4 

B-34ch K-Rsq Q.K2 
P.K5 

B^KKtd PxKt Q.K3-h 

(1)  7  . . ,  K-R3 ;  8  Q X Pch,  K x Kt ;  9  Q-BSch,  K.Q3 ;  lO P.Q4. B't.i2','  11 B xPch, 
K.K2;  12  B-Kt5ch,  B-Ba ;  13  0-0,  &c. 

(2).  If  8  . .,  B-Q3 ;  9  0-0,  B-Bsq;.  10  P.Q4,  Kt-BS ;  11  -Q.R6 1 

^3)  6  ..,.P.Q3  is simpler;  if  7  ,QxP or P-Q4,  B-K3.    6  ..,  Q-B3,  6  ...  B-BS, 
and  6  . . ,  Kt.QB3  all lead to.a won game for White.    (-Mandhuch.) 

(4)  Or  7  . . ,  Kt-KB3  f ;  8  0-0,  P.QB3. 

(5)  9  P:Q4,  Kt.B3;    10  P-K6,  B-Kt2;    11  BxP,  B-Ksq;    12  B-KtS,  QxP; 
13  BxKt,  B-Kt5+  :    if  9  QxPch,  KtrBSl. 

(6)  If  10  P-K5,  Kt-KR3  I    {Hmidlmch.) 

l7)  Orl0P-Q4.    (Anderssen.) 

(8>  14  BxP,  B-Kt5;    15  Q-R4,  Kt-K2-f .      Mr.  BanJcen suggests for Whit«j 
13Q.R31 

(9)  Or  5  ..,Q-K2.     (Morphy.) 

(10)  After this move or  10  Q^P the Handhuch pUys  10^ »,  B-Kt2  giving up  ^j piecQ to simplify the gaia^. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

IVT Table  94.— THE MUZIO GAMBIT. 

7 
8 
9 
10 
U 
12 
19 
14 
15 

1   P.K4,  P.K4 

6 
PQ4 

QxP P-Q3  ? 
0-0 

(1) 

Q-B3 

Kt-R'3     (2) 

QxPch K-Rsq B-E3 

QBxP Q-B3 
Q-K3 
Q-Kt3 
P.K5 

(3) 

BxB RxB B.K3 
PxP 

2  P-K 
4  B- 

B-K3 
P-Q5 

B-Q2 
BxP Q-K2 
P-K5 

PxP BxP QxB      (4) 
QxPch, 
K-Qsq QxKBch Q-Ksq P-Q6 

PxP QxP Kt-K2     (5) 

B4,   PxP; 
B4,    P-Kt5 

8 

FQ4 
KBxP P-QB3    (6) 
B-Kt3     (7) 
PxKt QxP QxP QBxP Kt-B3  ! 
Kt-Q2 
B.KKt5  + 

3  Kt-KB3,  P.KKt4; 

9  10 

00 

PxKt QxP B-Ra? 
P-Q4 (8) 

P-Q3 
Kt-BS 

(9) 

Q-B3 

K-Rsq   (10) 
B-K3 

P-K5 

PxP PxP QxP BxB QxB^ 
QxKtP Q-QB3 
Q-B8ch K.K2 
BxP-f Q-B8 
P-K5 

Q-B4 
Kt-B3 

Kt-QB3(11) 
Kt-K2 
KKt-K2 
B-Q3 

Q-K3 
P.B3 

Kt-KtS Q.R^ 

B-Kt2 
BxP 

0-0 

Kt-Kta QKtK2(12) 

(1)  6  ..,  Q-B3;    7  P-K5,  Q-B4;    8  0-0,  B-RS;    9  Kt-B3  runs into Col.  la U 

6  ..,  Q-R5ch;    7  P-KKt3,  Q-R6:    8  QBxP,  P-KB3;    9  P-K5  or Kt-B3,  &c. :  if 
9Q-QKt3?,  Q-Kt7-f. 

(2)  8  K-Rsq,  with the reply Q  xP,  or B-R3  also bad for Black. 

(3)  10..,Q-Kt2;    11  Kt-KtS,  Kt-R3 ;    12QBxP,  PxB;    13KtxPch+. 

(4)  11  . . ,  P-KB3 ;    12  B-Q4.  B-Kt2 ;    13  Kt-B3,  K-Qsq ;    14.  P-Q6,  with a  strong Attack. 

(5)  16  B-B7,  Q-Bsq;    17  Kt-B3,  and wins. 

(6)  Or  6..,  PxKt;    7QxPl If  6  . . ,  Kt-B3 ;    7KBxPch,K'xB followed by  9  B X  P,  &c'. 

(7)  7BxKBPch,  Kx-B;    8  Kt-K5ch,  K-Ksq+. 

(8)  Or  7   P-K5.     Or  7  Kt-B3,  (if)  Q-B3;    8  Kt-Q5,  Q-Q5ch;    9  R-B2,  QxB; 
10P-Q3;Q-B3(Q-Q5!);    llBxP  +  . 

(9)  Or  8  QBxP,  BxB;    9  QxB,  Q-K2      10  B x.Pch,, K-Qsq; 

7  . . ,  Q-K2  is a  transposition of this variation. 

(10)  Or9P-K5.     (C.  E.  R.) 

(11)  .  If  9  . . ,  Kt-K2 ;    10  Kt-K4 + . 
^X2)  .X6Kt-K4,p.KB3;    17PxP,BxP;    18  B.K5,  Kt-Q4;    IdBxB^* 

8  Kt.Kt5ch. 

11  P-K5,  &o. 

17d THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  95.— THE MUZIO GAMBIT. 

1  ?.K4,  P.K4;    .2  P.KB4,  PxP;     8  Kt-KBS,  P-KKtTa 
4  B-B4.  P.Kt6;    5  0-0,  PxKt;    6  QxP. 

11  12  IS  14  15 

6 

Q-E2 

QxP P-Q4  P-Q3 

Q-B4ch Kt-KR3  (3)  Kt-QB3  (6)    P-Q3 

P-Q4 Kt-B8  Kt-B3  (6)    QBxP QxTPch QxB P-QB3    (4)  KtxP B-K3       (8) 

B-K3  Q-K5ch P-Q4  Q-Q3  B-KKt6 

QxKB Q-K8  P-Q3  Kt-K3  Q-Q2       (9) 

Q-K5ch QxR B-Q2  Kt-Q5  Kt-B3 

Kt-K2  Q-KKt8  R-Ktsq Q-B4ch Kt-QB3 

QxR Q-K5cb QR-Ksq K-Rsg Kt-Q5 

"     QxKP    (1)     B-K2  B-KR6  FEti B^Kt^         ] 

B-R6  QxP R-B2  B-KtS 

*^     Kt-KtS Kt-QB3  Kt-Q2  B-KR3 

Q-Kt8+  Q-B4  R-K8  B-Q2 

^^  KtxP     (2)    B-K3  Q-Bsq  (7) 

8 

10 

1 

(1)  Or- 11  . .,  P-Q3 1 ;  12  Q xP,  or Kt-Q2  with at least an equal game.    (Ecmdi buck.) 

(2)  Continued  14  Kt-B3,P.Kt3}  16  R.B2,  B-Kt2";  16  B-KS,  Kt-KS ;  17  Q-B3  or B6,  Kt.B3+.    (C.  M.) 

(3)  If  7  ...  Kt-QB3;   8  BxPch,  K-Qsq;   9  Kt.B3,  Q-Kl;    10  QxQ,  KtxQ; 

11  P-Q41+. 

(4)  8   ..,  B-Kt2;    9  P-K5,    P.QKt4 ;    10  KtxP,  Kt-R3;    11  P-Q4,    B.Kt2 ; 

12  At-Q6ch+.    The Col.  leaves White with a  good game. 

(5)  Lowenthal connected this move with Kt-Qsq.    5  . .,  B-Kt2  is inferior. 

(6)  8  P-B3,  Q-B2,  Q x  P and QB x  P are all to Black's advantage. 

(7)  So far Dufresne and Zukertort...  Dr.  Schwede adds  14  Q-QB3,  B.KKt2; 
15KtxQBPch,  K-Qsq;  16  Q-E5,  KtxKt;  17  B-Kt4,  P-Q3  ! ;  18  QR-Qsq,  B-K4 ; 
19  RxQPch,  BxR;  20  R-Qsq,  K-Ksq ;  21  BxB,  Kt-K2 ;  22  QxKt,  B-Kt5 ; 
23  R-Q5,  R-Bsq;  24  Q-Kt?,  B-K3;  25  QxKtPch,  B-Q2 ;  26  Q-E:t7,  B.B3; 
27  B^R4+. 

(8)  Or  8  ..,  B-Kt2!    (0.  E.  R.) 

(9)  9  ..,  P.KB3;  10  P-K5  1    (Winawer v.  Zukertort),  .P.Q4  1    (Steinitz).    T variation in this Col.  is not yet thoroughly analysed. 

1 

■ 

THE rp.K4,  p Table  96.- 
.  K  4  ;    2  P  - 

-THE MU: 

310 
:P; 

GAMBIT. 
3   Kt-KB'6 

KB4,  Px 

,  P.KKt4; 

Mm i  B.B4 

,  P-Kt5;    5  0-0,  PxKt;    6  QxP, 

Q-B3!. 

P 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

7 

P-Q3 
B-R3 

P.B3? 
Kt-QB3 

P-K5 

Kt-QB3 

P-Q4 

(4) 

Q-QKt3ch(8) 

8 

Kt-B3 

QBxP BxQP 

(5) 

P-Q4 

K-Rsq Kt-K2 

B-B4ch P-B3 

KtxP B-R3 

9 

QBxP 

(1)    K-Rsq Kt-B3 

PxKt     (7) 

Kt-B3 

BxB P-Q3 

■    B-Q3 

(6) 

QxPch Q-B4 

10 

QxB Kt-B3 

B-Kt3 

K-Rsq P-Q3 

QxQ 

■     B-Kt3 

Kt-K2 

QxB QxP 

11 

RxQ Q-Kt3 

QBxP QxP Kt-Q5 

P-Q3 

(3) 

BxB B-Q3 

Kt-K2 

12 
13 
14 
15 

BxPcb QxB Q-B3  BxP K-Qsq QxQ B-K4  BxB QR-KBsq_  RxQ P-QKt3  QR-Ksq QKt-B3  B-K3+  +"    Q:Kt4 

P-KR3!  (2)  RxKtch Kt-K4  K^Q^q P-Q4  RxBPi- 

(1)  This may be played a  move earlier.  If  9  P-K5,  QxP;  10  B-Q2,  QKt-B3  • 
11  QR.Ksq,  Q.B4 1  (Col.  23):  if  10  QB x  P,  Q x  B ;    11  B x  Pch,  K-Qsq,  &c. 

(2]  Or  14  R-R41  (C.  E.  R.)  The Handbuch gives  14  P-KR3  (Winawer v.  Wittek) 
to White's advantage. 

(3)  If now  11  ,.,  Q-KtS;  12  BxQP I  (Taubenhaus).  In case  8  ..,  QxP 
9BxPch+. 

(4)  Or7  ..,P.QKt4l;  if  8  P-K5  (a)  Q-QKt3ch;  9  K-Rsq,  PxB:  10  OxR, 
B.QKt2 ;  11  Q X  Ktch,  K-K2 ;  12  R.B3,  Kt-R3 ;  13  Kt.B3,  B-Kt2 ;  14  Ktch BxKt;    15QxQ,  RPxQ+  (Turnbull). 

,  (a)  n8Kt.B3!,  P-B3;  9  B-Kt3  (if  9  BxKtP,  B-Kt5  or B.KR3I).  p.03 
10  QB X  P  (if  10  Q-R5,  Q-Kt3),  B.K3 ;    11  Q-R6  or Kt3,  B x  B+.  (C.  E,  R.) 

(5)  8PxP,  ifB-B3;  9  Kt-B3,  Kt.K2 ;  10  Kt-Ki,  Q.QKt3ch ;  11  K-Rsq.  Kt-KtS 
12Q-R5,  B-Kt2;    13P-Q6,^&c.  • 

(6)  if  9  . . ,  P X B ;    10  Kt X P leads to a  \Nin for White.    {Handbuch). 

(7)  Or  9  B X  Pch»  Q X  B  ;     10  P x  Kt,  B-R3,  &o. 

(8)  7Q.B4;   8  P.Q4,  B-R3  transposes into Col.  10. 

180  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

I Table  97.— THE MUZIO GAMBIT. 

1P.K4,P.K4;    2P.KB4,PxP;    3  Kt  .KB3,  P-K Kt4  ; 
4   B-B4,   P-Kt5;     5  0-0.   P x  Kt  (1) ;     6  Q x  P  (2),   Q-B3!r 
7  P-K5,  Q X  P(3);    8  P- Q3(4),   B-R  3  ;    9   Kt-B3  ,    Kt-K  2  ; 
10  B-Q2.    (Dia.  p.  18i,) 

21  22  28  24  25 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 

P.QB3  QKt-B3 

QR-Ksq QR-Ksq Q-QB4ch Q-KB4    (9) 

K-Rsq     (5)  Kt-Q5  R-K4 

0-0  P-Q4!  K-Qsq  0-0       (12) 

Kt-K4  Q-R5  B-B3  QBxP Q-B4  Q-Q3  R-Ksq(dia.)    R-KKtsq(lO)   B-Kt2 

P-KKt4  BxQP Kt-B6  RxKt Q-K2 

Q-Kt3  0-0         (7)  R-Bsq KtxR P-Ql  ' 

P.Kt5  RxKt P-KKt4  B-B6  QBxP(13) 

B.Kt2     (6)  PxK      (8)  Q-Kt3  R-Ksq Q-Kt4    (1^ 

Kt-B6ch KtxP P-KR4  P^KKt4  P-KR4 

K-Rsq KTBS P.Q4  Q-Kt3  Q-Kt3 

BxKt BxP BxP QK2  KtxP  (X5) 

P:Q4  BxB BxP B-Bsq  (11)    KtxKt B-Kt3  RxB QxB P-Kt5  BxKt 

^^    QxKtP QxR QxQch P-Q3  B-B4     (16) 

R.KKtsq KtxQ KtxQ KtxKBP QR-KB4 

^^     0^4       ^  KtxR R-KKtsq Q-B4  B-K3 

Q.Kt2  Q-Kt5ch B-B3  P-KR3--        BxB 

^^    BxKt Kt-Kt3  P-B4  P-KR3—        PxB RxBP Kt-R5  —  B-B6  R-K4 

^^     RlCsq P-B4    —  K.Q2  RxRch RxB-f-  P-Q4  KxR 

22     ' "  PxKt+  R-KBsqch 

(17) 

(1)  5  . . ,  Q-K2  (Kling  «nd Horwitz)  may run into Col.  9,  note  9.  Or White may play 
6P-Q4{it6Kt-B3,Q-B4ch;  7  P-Q4,  Q x  B,  «&c.),  P x  Kt ;  7Kt-B3,P-Q3;  8Kt-Q5, 
Q-Q2;  9  Q X  P,  Kt-QB3;  10  Q x  P,  B-Kt2  (a) ;  U Kt x  Pch,  Q x Kt ;  12  B x Pch, 
K-Bsq;  13  B-KtSdis ch,  Kt.B3 ;  14  Q-R4,  K-Ksq;  15  B-Kt5,  R-Bsq;  16  BxKt equalising after the exchanges.  ^        ,  ^     , 

(a)  If  10  ...  Kt-Qsq;  11  Q-B6,  KtxQ;  12  KtxKt may draw by perpetual check;   Auderssen played U  Q-Kt^  P.QB3 ;    12QxKt,&o, 

If  5  ..,  P-Q4;  6  BxP,  P-QB3;  7  B-Kt3,  PxKt;  8  QxP,  B-R3;  9  P.Q4, 
Q X  Pch ;    10  K-Rsq,  Kt.B3 ;    11  B x  P,  B-Kt5  ;    12  Q-KtS,  Kt^x P ;    13  R-Ksq+ . 

(2)  If  6  P-Q4  ?,  P.Q4  >,  not  6  . . ,  P xP on account of  7  B x  Pch. 

(3)  7  . .,  Q-B4 ;    8  P-Q4,  B-R3;    9  Kt-BS  :  see CoL  10. 

(4)  8  BxPch,  KxB;  9  P-Q4,  X^xPch  (Q-B4  1);  10  B-K3,  Q.B3;  11  BxBP, 
B:Kt2;  12Kt-B3,  Kt-K2;  13  Kt.Q5.  Kt x  Kt ;  14"QxKtpb,  Q-K3;  16  B-Redis ch, 
K-Ktsq ;    16  QB-Ksq and wins.  

(5)  Or  12  R.B2 1  (Staunton.) 

(6)  If   15   ..,   P.Q4;     16  PxB,   PxKt;     17  RxP,   B.Kt5;     18   QxP,  &c. 

(Handbiich.)      ^' ,^ . '  ^^j--*-  -  * 

(7)  14  ..,  PxB;'  15  KtxP,  QKt-B3;  16  B.B3I  (RxKtch,  Praxis,  ip.  310), 
Q-Kt3;  17QxQ,  BPxQ;  18BxR,  K.B2.;  19KtxP,  BxKt;  20 R x Bch.  B-B4 ; 
21  B-B3,  Kt.Q4  +  .  ,>,-i^if,<  / 

(8)  Orl5'..,QxR;    16QxB,PxB;    17KtxP.&c. 

(9)  Paulsen's variation.  If  11  ..,Q-QB4ch;  12  K-Rsq"  (or R-B2),  Kt-Q5  (a); 
13  RxKtch,  QxR;  14  Q-R5,  Kt-K3;  15  QxB,  Q-Kt4;  16  QxQ,  KtxQ; 
17Kt-Q5+.    -^^IS^^^-^ 

(a)  Or  12  !^Kt.K4;  13  Q.R5,  &c. :  or  12  ...  P-QS;  13  Kt-Q6,  KtjrK*; 
14RxKt,  PxR;    15B.Kt4+. 

(10)  13  ...R-KBsq;    (if)  14  B.B6,  B-Kt4.    {Field.) 

(11)  Orl7  . . ,  B-Kt4 ;    18  Q-K5,  &c. 

(12)  Better than  12  . . ,  Kt-K4.    Lange suggests  12  . . ,  P.Q3 ;  13  QB x  P,  B-Bsq f: 

Bird played  13  Q-TC2.    v*"^ 

(13)  If  15B-Q6,  PxR;  16RxQ,  BxR;  17BxKt,  KtxB;  18PxP,B.Kt8+. 
If  15B.K5,  Q.Kt4(orPxR);    16BxB,  KxB;    17  P-KR4,  Q-R3,  &c. 

(14)  I prefer  15  . .,  9-Q2 ;    (C.  E.  R.) 

(16)  Or  17  B X  P,  B X  Kt ;    18  B x.Kt,  B xP  ;    19  B x P,  P-B4  +  . 

(16)  Or  18  . .,  Kt.Q5;    19  Q-B2,  Kt-K3.     (C.  E.  B.) 

(17)  23  K-Ktsq,  Kt.Q6;  24  Q-Qsq,  R-QBsq ;  25  P-B3,  RxB;  26  PxKt, 
Q-Kt6+. 

(p.  180.) 

„ 0^A^/mM^..^A.. m^i iilMlsiBt 

(Col.  23.) 

After White's  10th move. 

After Black^s  13th move. 

182  THE KING^S GAMBITS. 

SECTION lY. 

THE KIESERITZKY GAMBIT. 

ll»-K4,  P-K4;    2P-KB4,PxP;    8  Kt-KB3.  P-KKti; 
4  P.KR4,  P.Kt5,  6  Kt-K6. 

THE Kieseritzky is un advanced form of the King's Gambit.  By playiiig  4  P-KR4  as above,  the first  ^player prevents the Classic&l Defence on that move  (4  ...,  B-Kt2),  followed by the peculiar arrangement of Pawns on King's side,  which characterises the King's Gambit Proper. 
(p.  163,  Cols.  14,  Ac.)  Black's best reply is  4  ...,  P-Kt5,  moving a  Pawn already in play,  which enables White,  without losing time,  to plant his King's Knight on an attacking square,  in the centre of th'e board.  His loss is,  or may be,  hmited to the Gambit Pawn,  in exchange for which he gets a  strong position,  which the gain of one more move will easily convert into a  superior game.  This consideration obtains in several variations in which a  further sacrifice is offered to secure the necessary time. 

The numerous lines of play available for both attack and defence, 
make the Kieseritzky a  tolerably safe opening between equal players, 
while the complications that spring out of irregularity of arrangement udd to the chances of the-  more skilful or more practised player.  The opening occupies a  medium position between the King's Gambit and the JUlgaier variation ;  it is more enterprising than the former,  and not so risky as the latter. 

In reply to  4  Kt-K5,  Black has the choice of eight recognised moves, 
4  ...,  P-Q8,  P-Q4,  Q-K2,  B-K2,  Kt-QB3,  Kt-KB3,  B-Kt2,  and P-KE4. 
Of these Kt-KB3,  and B-Kt2  are generally preferred ;  B-K2  ia the least satisfactory  ;  P-Q3  and P-KR4  do not make the most of the situation  ; 
Kt-QB3  and Q-K2  aim at simplicity and equality ;  and P-Q4  calls for considerable skill on the part of the second player to carry out properly. 
His recompense lies in the opportunities for elegant play which not tmfrequently present themselves in this variation. 

^'■fc The Kieseritzk}'  variatioii,  which now gives its name to the opening, 
is; given in Col.  36.  The move  6  Kt-K5  was previounly known as the King's Knight's Gambit,  li is the Oambitto Grande of the Italian writers. 

6 

10 
11 
12 
13 
U 
15 

Table  98. -THE KIESERITZKY GAMBIT. 

1  P.K4,   P.K4:    2P-KB4,PxP;  8  Kt- K B  3,  P-KKt4  ; 

4  P-KR4,  P-KtS;     5  Kt-KS. 

12  8  4                     5 

FQ3       (I)  FQ4       (9) 

KtxKtP          _^_____  PQ4  PxP P-KB4             B-K2       (4)  P-B6  Kt-KB3 !         Q^M Kt-B2      (2)     P-Q4  KtPxP(lO)  BxP Q-K2 

Kt-B3     (3)     BxPch B-K2  KtxP Kt;KB3 

P-Q4                Kt-B2  B-K3     (11)  B-Q3+            P-Q4 

PxP Q-Kt4      (5)  BxPch B^QS Kt^Ri BxP Q.B3       (6)  K-Q2  (dia.)(12)    Kt-Q3 ! 

B-K3               Kt-QB3'dia)  B-B3  -f F^Bi P-B4—           Q X  P      (7)  QxQch P-Q4—           BxKtch BxQ KxB B-K2     (18) 

Q X  Qcb Kt-Kt6 

BxQ R-R2 

KtxP B^3"~ 

B-Q3  Kt-B3 

P-KB3    (8)  KtxB Kt-B3  KtxKt B-Q2  BxKt R-R5   —  PxB 

—  P-B6+ 

(1)  Recommended by Kolisch. 

(2)  Or  7  P X  P,  B X  P ;    8  Kt-B2,  (threatening Q-R5ch followed by Q-QKt5cli). 
Kt-KB3 ;    9  P-Q3,  B-R3 ;    10  Q-B3,  &c.     (C.  E.  R.) 

(3)  If  7  ..,  Q-K2;    8  Q-R5ch  (P-Q4  transposes -into Col.  6),  K-Qsq ;    9  Q-K2. 
(C.  E.  R.) 

(4)  Or  6   ..,  B-Kt2;    7  P.Q4.  P.KB4;    8  Kt.B2!,  Q-K2;    9  Kt-BS,  Kt-KB3: 
10  P-Q5.     (E.  F.) 

(5)  If  8  . . ,  Q-B3  or B-Kt6  ;    9  Kt-B3 ! 

(6)  Or  9  QKt-B3,  QKt.B3 ;    10  Kt.K2.    (Brentano):    if  9  . . ,  B x  Ktcb ;  10  K x  B. 
Q-Kt6cb;    11  K-Ktsq,  B.Kt,5  ;    13  B.K2,    (Wayte.) 

184 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

(7)  If  10P-B3,  B-Kt6;  11  Kt-QR3,  Kt-B3;  12  Kt-Kt5,  B-Kt5 ;  13  QxKB!, 
PxQ;  14BxQ,  PxKtch;  15KxP,  KtxKPch;  16K-K3,KtxB;  ITKtxBPch, 
K-Q2;  i8KtxR,B-K3;  19P-B4,  P-Q4+.  Or  10  P-Q5,  Kt-K4 ;  11  QxP,  BxKtch; 
12  KxB,  Q-Kt3;  13  B-Kt5ph,  B-Q2;  14  BxBch,  KxB;  15  K-Ktsq,  K-Ksq; 
16  Kt-B3,  &c. 

(8)  Or  13  . . ,  Kt-KB3  threatening Kt-K5cli.     fO.  .B..B.> 

(9)  E.  Morphy's move,  a strong and important defence.  If now  6  KibxKtP, 
PxKP. 

(10)  Or  7  B.B:B4  I If  7  P x  QP,  Q x  QP  ? ;  &  B.QB4,  Q.K5ch  ;  9  It.B2,  P x  P ; 
10  R-Ksq,  Q-B4ch:     11  KxP,  &c.     (0.  E.  R.) 

Ao 

(11)  8  KtxKtP,  BxKt;  9PxB.BxPcli;  10K.K2,Q.K2;  II P-KS,  Kt.QB3. 

(12)  Dr.  Brentano notes that White has numerous lines of play,  but none to avoid defeat.    The play is however uncertain ;  we append two continuations : — 

90-0,QxP;  10BxKt,PxB;  11  P-KKt3,  Q-I14  ;  12  R-B21,  BxKt;  13BxB, 
B-Bsq  ;  14  Kt-B3,  P-KB4 ;  15  Q-Q2  (threatening R-R2),  Q-Kt3 ;  16  Q-B4  (or QR-KBsq) ,  Kt-R3 ;  17  Kt x  P,  &c,  m 

^0-0,0-0;    10Kt.QB3,  KtxKt;  llPxKt.QxP;   12  P-KKt3,  Q-K2  (if Q-R4  ■ 
or6;    13R-B2);    13  B-R6,  P-KB4 ;    UBxR.QxB;    15  KtxP,  BxP;    16  BxP» 
BxB;    17  RxB,  Q-Kt2;    18  Q-B3,  B-Q3;    19  QxPch,  K-Rsq;    20,R-Kt5.  &c. 
Black may -also play  8  . .,  Kt-QB3. 

(13)  OrnKtxP,Kt-Kt6;    12R.B2,B.Q3;    13  K-B2  (or B-iKtSqh I    C- E.  B.). 
Kt X  B ;    14  R-Rsq,  Pch ;    16  K x  Kt,  B'x P + .    (Brentano.) 

(Col.  2.) 

(Col.  4.) 

After Black*s  9th move. 

After Black's  8th move. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS.  18«- 

Table  99.— THE KIESERITZKY GAMBIT. 

I P*K4,  P.K4;    2  P.KB4,  PxP;    3  Kt-KB3,  P.KKt4; 
4   P-KR4,   P-Kt5;    6   Kt-K5. 

6  7  8  9  10 

10 
11 

Q^K2      (1)  B.K2      (8) 

P-.Q4       (2)  _____  KtxKtP QxP?  B-B4t P-Q3  P-KB4  P-Q4       (9)  P-Q3  BxPch KtxKtP B-QB4 !  (5)  PxP Q-Kt7  K-Bsg P-KB4  Kt-KB3  BxPch BxPch Kt-KR3 

Kt-B2  Kt-QB3  Kt-B2  K-Qsq KtxKtP Kt-KB3  (8)  FQ§       (6)  BxKtch PxKt KtxKt BxP B-^7cb KxB QxR    (10)  QxKt KtxP     (4)  K-Q9q QxP B-Kt5ch P-Q4 

Q-R5ch BxP P.Q4  B-K2  QxP K.Qsq QKt-Q2  Kt-QB3  Q-Kt4    (11)    PxB B-K2  fe-QKt3  P-B3  B.B3     (12)    RxB Kt-KB3  K-Ksq Kt-B3  BxBch Id u 

*^^   —         Kt-B7  BxP PxB See also R-KKtsq(7)    B-Kt6+         Q^KtT Kt-KKt$  QxKPch 

12    Kt-B3—  R-KKtsq(7)    B-Kt6+         Q^KtT  ^''^'  " 

R-Kt2  K-Bsq Kt-K6  +  Q-QB5ch Kt-K2  + 

(I)  Rosenthal.    A defence which equalises the game.    Or,  after  6  P-Q4,  Blae)( 
may transpose into Col.  5  bj  6  .'.,  P-Q4.. 

(2[)  IfGKtxKtP,  P-KB41. 

(3)  8  ..,PxP;  9Qch,  K-Qsq;  10BxP.Kt-KB3;  11  Q.K2, P.KR4 ;  12P-B4,&o, 

j[4)  9  . . ,  P X  P ;  10  P.Q5,  P-KR4,  &<5. :    if  10  B.K2,  P.Q4 ;  11  Bch,  K-Qsq  == . 

(s)  If  7  B X  P,  P-Q3  ;  8  B-KKt5,  Kt-KB3 ;  9  Kt-QB3,  P-B3+. 

(6)  8  . . ,  Kt X  P loses Book for Kt. 

(I),  If  12  ..,  KtxP;  13Kt-Q5. 

(8)  Salvio and Polerio. 

(9)  Or  6  ..,  BxPch. 

(10)  Or 9  QxKPch,  Q-K2;   10  Q x.R,  B-KtSch ;   11  B.K2,  BxBch;  12  KxB. 
QxPch+. 

(II)  10  ..,  BxBch;    11  KxB,  Q-Kt4  ;    12  K-Bsq,  P.B6  ;    13  PxP,  Q-Kt6; 
14  B X  B,  Q X  Pch  = .    White can draw and has chances of winning. 

(12)  Neither II Kt-BS nor  11  R x  B is good for White. 

186  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

14 
16 
16 

Table  100.— THE KIESEBITZKY GAMBIT. 

1P-K4,P-K4;    2P-KB4,PxP;    3  Kt-K B3,  P-KKt4; 
4  P-KR4,   P.Kt5;   5  Kt-K5. 

11  12  13  14  15 

^    B-K2  Kt-QB3  (3) 

B-B4!  KtxKtP P-Q4  KtxKt 

^     BxPch P-Q4  KtxKt QPxKt K-Bsq PxP PxKt P-Q4       (9) 

7    P.Q4  Q-K2ch P-Q3  KFB3 

BxP      (1)     B-K2  BxP      [Q)     BxP    (10)  Kt-B3 

S Kt-KR3  Kt-Q&  B-Kt^  KtxP KFrJ P-Q4  Kt-B2  B-B4  B-Q3  B-QB4. 

^    B-Kt4     (2)     Kt-KB3  (4)  Q-K2  Kt-Q3    (11)  Kt-Kt6 

Kt-QB3  Kt-B3     (5)  Kt-B3  Kt-h3  R-R2 

1^     P-QB3  B-Kt5     (6)  PxP+  B:Kt2  Q-K2 

B-Kt3  KtxB Kt-K2  Q-Q3 

11  P.KB3  KtxKt                                 0-0  B.R3     (12) 
Kt-Q3  P-Q3       (7)                          P-B3  B-Q2 

12  QxP KtlK6                                     b:B4  P-Kt4 
BxP BxKt Q-B2  B-Kt3 

1^    BxB QxB BxB B-Kt2   (13) 

KtxB Q-Q2  QxB  0-0-0 

QxQch Q-Kt6cb K-Ksq  0-0+ 

RxQ K-Bsq  0-0-0 

Kt-B2  R-KKtsq  ~ 

Kt-Kt6  R-KKtsq R-Ktsq B-R3-f J-    RxP4- 

(1)  8  PxP,  Kt-KR3;  9  P-Q4,  0-0;  10  Kt-QBS,  B.B4 ;  11  BxP,  Q.B3; 
12  Q-Q2,  B-Kt3l;   13  K-Ktsq,  Kt-B4;   14  Kt-K4  or QR-KBsq-l-.     (Blackbume.) 

(2)  Or  9  . .,  Q-Kt4  ;   10  Q-Q2,  B-Kt6 ;  11  Kt-QB3. 

(3)  Simpler than  5  . . ,  B-Kt2  or Kt-KB3.  Advocated by Neumann in the St/raUgie. 

(4)  If  9  . . ,  P-B6 ;  10  P X  P,  Kt X  Pch ;  11  K-Bsq,  Kt-RP ;   12  B-Kt5ch,  &c. 

(5)  OrlOP-B3.     (C.  E.tR.) 

(6)  If  10  ..,  P.B6;  11  PxP,  KtxBPch;  12  K-Bsq,  Kt-Q5;  13  P-Q3,  B.B4; 
14  B-Kt5,  0-0-0  ;    15  Q-Q4  (or KKt.K4.     0.  E.  B.)>  R-Ksq ;    16  .R-Ksq+. 

(7)  Or  12  0-0  !     ("C.  E.  fe.) 

(8)  If  8  B-QB4,  Q-K2. 

(9)  Or B-E:2  1  '  (Potter.) 

(10)  If  8  P-K6,  Kt-R4-f . 

(11)  9  . .,  B-Q3  (Kt-B3  is ihf erior) ;  10  Q-Bsq  (if Q-K2,  Q-K2),  Kt-Kt6;  11  R-R2, 
Q.K2ch;  12  K-Qsq,  B-KB4 ;  13  Kt-B3,  0-0-0+  :  or  10  BxKt,  BxB  ;  11  Q-Q3, 
P-KR4  (Q-K2 ;  12  0-0,  B-Q3 ;  13  Kt-Q2,  B-K3 ;  14  P-KKt3,  0-0-0) ;  12  Kt-Q2. 
B-K3  :   13  0-0-0,  Q-Q2 ;   14  P-KKt3,  B x  Ktch  ;    15  R x  B,  0-0-0,  &c. 

The HandbKch gives  9  . , ,  Q x  P ;   10  Q-K2,  P-KB4 ;   11  QKt-Q2,  B-K2 ;  12  0-0-0-f. 

(12)  Or  11  . . ,  B-B4  ;   12  QB x  P,  Kt x  P ;   13  0-0-0,  Kt-Q3.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(13)  Or  13  .,»  P-Kt5;  (if)  14  K±.K2.  KtxP-f-.    (C E-  R.) 

THE KING'S GAMBITa 

187 

Table  101.— THE KIESERITZKY GAMBIT. 

1P.K4,  P.i4;    2P-KB4,PxP;    3  Kt-K B3,  P- KKt4; 
4  P.KB4,  P.Kt5;    6   Kt.K5 

16  17  18  19  20 

10 

11 

12 

IS 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

Kt-KB3  (1) 
B-B4       (2) 

P-Q4 

P-Q3 

BxPch K^Qiq B-Kt3 

PxKt     (3) 

PxPd.ch B-Q2 

PxKt! 

QxPch  (4) 

K-Bsq!   (5) 

B-Q3 

Kt-B3 

Q^Bi Q-Q5 

m QxKBP Kt-K4 

Q-K2 

KtxB PxKt BxP R-Bsq Q-Q2  + 

P-Q4! 
PxP B-Q3 
P-Q4 

Kt-R4 
0-0 

QxP Q-Ksq 

(7) 

m 

(9) 

QxQ RxQ 

0-0 
B-Q3 

R-Ksq  — 

Kt-QB3 ! 

Q-K2     (10) 

B-Kt5ch(ll) 

P-B3     (12) 

PxP PxP Kt-Q5  (dia.) 

Q-K3     (13) 

Kt-B7cb(i4» 

BxKt B-B4 

Q-K2     (15) 

BxPch QxB KtxQ KxKt+ 

B-KB4 
Kt-K2 

Q-K2     (16) 

QKtxP KtxKt BxKt P.B3 
0-0 

PxKt B-Kt5. 

Q-Q2 
PxP B-B4ch K-Rsq B-KKt3 

P-K6 

Q-Q3 

QxKtP+ 

B-Kt2! 

Kt-QB3 

OO PQ4 

Kt-R4 

KtK2 

P-QB4 ! 

P-B3 

PxP PxP Kt-Q2 

KtxKt  (17) 

BxKt Q-Q3 

R-Ksq+ 

(1)  Philidor'a Defence. 

(2)  Or  6  P-Q4,  P.Q3 ;  7  Kt.Q3,  Kt x P;  8  B xP.  Q-K2 ;  9  Q-K2,  B-Et2 ;  10 P-B?. 
<3)  If  9  ..,B-K3;  10  BxP. 

(4)  If  11  . . ,  Q X  BP ;  12  P.KKt3.    (Schachzeitung.) 

(5)  If  12  Q-K2,  Q-B4  +  . 

(6)  If X4  P.B7.  R-Bsq. 

-188 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

(7)  See diagram.  8  ..,  Q-K2 ;  9  BxP  (or  0-0),  Kt-R4;  10  P.KKt3,  P-KB3 ; 
UQ-K2,  &c.     IflOO-0,  KtxB;   11  RxKt,  P-KB3+. 

(8)  9KtxKtP,  Kt-Kt6;  10  R-R2,  Q-K2ch  ;  11  K-B2,  P.KR4  +  .  A fine game Mieses v.  Anderssen runs thus  :— 9  B-Kt5ch,  P-QBS  ;  10  P x  P,  P x  P  ;  1 1  Kt x  QBP RtxKt;  12  BxKtch,  K-Bsq  {B-Q2 !)  ;  13  BxR,  Kt-Kt6 ;  14  R-R2  ^ah B-KB4 ' 
15  B-Q5,  K-Kt2  ;  ^6  Kt-B3,  R-Ksq ch;  17  K-B2,  Q.Kt3  ;  18  Kt-R4r Q-R3  ;  19  Kt-B3! 
B-K4 ;   20  P-R4  and Black mates in four moves. 

(a)  If  14  K-B2,  Kt x  Rch  ;  15  Q x  Kt,  P-Kt6ch  (or B-R3) ;   16  K-Ksq,  Q-K2ch  + . 

If  9  K-B2,  Kt Kt6  :  10  R-Ksq,  QxP  ;  11  Kt.KB3d.ch,  Kt-K5d.ch  ;  12  K-Ktaq Q-B7ch  ;   13  K-Esq,  P.KB4,  &c.  ^ 

If  9  Q-Q3,  P-KB3 ;   10  B-Kt5ch,  K-Bsq  ;    11  Kt-B4,  Kt-Kt6+. 

(9)  If  9  . . ,  P.B6  ;  10  Q-Ksq.    (SchWede.) 

(10)  Or  9  ..,0-0;  10  Kt-K2.  If  9  . . ,  Kt-Kt6 ;  lOBxP,  KtxR,  11  p.KKt3  ; 
or  11  Kt-K4,  Q x  Pch  (if  11  . .,  B-KB4  ;  12  B-KKt5) ;  12  P.KKt3.  Ktx P+.  (Hand- 
buck.)    If  9  . . ,  P.KB3 ;   10  B-QKt5ch,  &c. 

(11)  If  10  0-0,  BxKt. 

(12)  If  10  . . ,  K-Bsq or Qsq  ;  11  0-0  -f . 

(13)  Or  12  ...  Q-Qsq;  13  Ktx QBP,  KtxKt;  14  BxKtch,  B-Q2;  15  BxR, 
QxB;  16  Q-K2ch  (or P-B4  (C.  E.  R.),  K-Bsq  (or K-Qsq.  C.  E.  R.)-h.  Or  12..., 
Q-Kt2;  13  B-R4  (Kt-QB4,  B-B2 ;  14  B-R4),  B-K3 ;  14  QKtxP.  (Zukertort v. 
Flechsig.) 

(14)  Or  13  0-0,  (if)  PxB  (Gossip);  14  Kt x  P  (B5),  Kt x  Kt  ;  15  B x  Kt,  Kt-Q2  ; 
lOKtxKt,  QxKt;    17R-Ksqch+. 

(15)  Or  14  ..,Q-B4.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(16)  10  ..,  BxKt;  11  PxB,  P-B6  ;  12  PxP,  PxP;  13  B-KKtS,  P-KB3; 
UPxP,  Q-Q3;  15Q-Q4,PxKt;  16  B x  P,  Q-Kt6ch ;  17K-Q2,  0-0;  18  QR-KKtsq, 
and wins.    (Morphy v.  Bird.) 

(If)  Steinitz v.  Zukertort.  Or  13  Kt x  P  (B2),  if R  x Kt ;  14  P-Q6,  &c. :  if  13  . ., 
Q-B3, 14  Kt-Kt5.    Compare Col.  26. 

(Col.  17.) 

».^fk  -^  &A^..mm 1=^ 

After Black's  8th move. 

(Col.  18.) 

m wA   « t  ■  t p 

^.>-;^;g  ....  mm'' 

fM  _  WM,       Wi liii 

^    ^ »„,„ 

m wm^^  

S After White's  12th raove. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

18^' 

Table  102.— THE KIESERITZKY GAMBIT. 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

18 

18 

14 

li 

16 

P.K4,  P-K4;    2 
4   P-KR4, 
21  22 

KtxKtP(l) 
KtxP  (2) 
P-Q4  P.Q3 

P.KB4,  PxP;    3  Kt.KB3,  P-KKt4; 
P.Kt5;    5  Kt-Kd,  Kt-KBS. 

Kt>Kt6 

QxQch BxQ R-R2 

B-Q3+ 

Kt-Kt6 

BxP KtxR Q-K2ch Q-K2 

Kt-B6ch K-Qsq BxPch KxB Kt-Q5ch K-Qsq KtxQ BxKt Q-Kt4 

(4) 

P-Q3 
Q-KB4 

(5) 

R-Ktsq QxBP 

(6) 

23 

24 

B-Kt6 

B-K2 
Q-K2 

P-KR4 ! 
Kt-B6ch  (7) 
K-Bsq- 
Q-K5 
Kt.B3 
KtxQPch(8)  Kt-Q5 
K.Ktsq+        B-K2 
0-0-0 

Q-K2ch  ? 

B-K2 

Q-Kt5ch  (9) 

Q-Q2I QxQch KtxQ KtxR Kt-B6ch(10) 

K-Qsq Kt-B7 
R-Bsq BxP BxPch(ll) 

KtxR B-Kt5 

P-KB3  (12) 
KtxPch K-B2 
Kt-K4 

Q-K4 

B-R5eh K-Ktsq Q-B3 

Q-K3 

QKt-B3 

P-KR3 

B-K3-f 

(1)  6  Kt X  BP is an inferior variation of the Allgaier Gambit. 

(2)  6...  KtxKt;  7QxKt,  P-Q4;  8QxP,  B-Q3;  9P-K5,Q-K2;  10  P-Q4. 
P-QB4;.  llKt-B3,PxP;  12  KtxP,  QxPch ;  13QxQ,BxQ;  14B-KB4,BxB; 
16KtxB,  &c.   (C.E.R.)  If6..,P.Q4;  7  Kt x  Ktch,  Q x  Kt ;  8  Q-K2  or Kt-B3,  &c. 

(3)  Or?  ..,*B-K2V 

(4)  If  14  Kt-B3,  R-Kfeq I    If  14  Q-R5,  Kt-KtS. 

(5)  If  14  . .,  B-Q3  ;  15  Q-KtSch,  K-B2;  16  Kt-B3.  If  14  . .,  R^Ksq;  15B.K2,  &c. 

(6)  16  ..,  R-Bsq;  17  QxP,  Kt-Kt6;  18  B.K2  or Kt.Q2,  B-B4  +  :  or  16  ... 
BxPch  ;   17  K-Q2,  R-Ksq ;   18  Kt-R3.  Kt-Kt6  !   Morphy's Games,  p.  260. 

(7)  If  11  Q-K5,  P-KB3 ;  12  Kt x  Pch,  K.B2 ;  13  Q-Q5ch,  K-Kt2  and wins. 
^)  If  13  Q-KB4,  K.Kt2  wins. 

(9)  Or  9  . . ,  Q X  Bch  !,  to equalise. 

(10)  Or  11  B.K5,  P-KB3  ;   12  Ktx Pch+, 

(U)  16  . . ,  K-Ksq ; '  17  B-Q6,  Kt-R3  ;  18  P.Q4 + . 

p2j I0..,Q-Kt5ch;  UP.B3,QxKtP;  12  Kt-B6ch,  K.K2 ;  13  Q.R4-|.. 

-190  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  103.— THE KIESERITZKY GAMBIT. 

^ 

1   P.K4,   P.K4;     2P-KB4,  PxP;  3  Kt -K B3,  P-K Kt  4  ; 

4  P.KR4,  P-Kt5  ;    5  Kt-K5,   B-Kt2.    (Paulsen's Defence.) 

26  27                   28  29                   30 

6  ^-Q^  KtxKtP Kt-KB3  FQ4 

7  B-B4  Kt-QB3(15)    Kt-B2    (16) 

P-Q4  0-0  P-Q3               PxP     (17) 

9 
10 
11 
12 
IS 
14 
15 
16 
17 

PxP Kt-QB3!         Kt-Q3!  KtxP 

0-Odia.  (1)  P-Q3  Kt-R4  Q-K2 

0-0  BxP      (9)    KtxBP KtxP Q-K2 

P.B4  (2)     KtxP RxKt Kt-Kt6  Kt-QBS P-B3  (3)     BxKt  (10)  BxRch R-R2  P-B3 

PxP QxB KxB  0-0  Kt-R3 

PxP  0-0      (dia)  BxP Q-Q3  Kt-B2 

KtxP Kt-B3    (11)    Q-Ksq   (13)    KtxB Kt-B4 ! 

Kt-QB3!(4)     P-B3     (12)    0-0  KxKt QxQch KtxKt   (5)     KtxKt K-Ktsq Kt-B3+  ExQ PxKt PxKt Q-Q3  P-Q4 

BxKt     (6)     Q-Kt4  Kt-B3  Kt-Kt6 

PxB Q-Q2  B-Kt5  R-R2 

QxQ  (7)     BxP Q-Kt3  R-Ksq RxQ BxB Q-B4ch B-Kt5 

B-K3  QxB K-Rsq K-Bsqd.ch R-Q4  Kt-R3  QR-Ksq—  K-Qsq Kt-B3  B-K8+  Kt-Ksq—  R-K6 !  (18) 

RxP  (14)  BxR KtxP  (8)  PxB    (19) 

(1)  8  . . ,  Kt-R4 1 ;  9  Kt-QB3,  0-0,  &c,     See Col.  20. 

(2)  Or9  ..,KtxPI     (Lange.) 

(3)  If  10  PxP eM|?as,  KtxP;  11  KtxKt,  PxKt;  12  QB x P,  Kt-R4 ;  13  B-K3. 
QxRP.    If  10P(Q4)xP,  Kt-K4,  &c. 

(4)  12  BxKt,  QxB;  13  Kt.QB3,  Q-Qsq  ;  14BxP,  Kt-B3;  15  KtxKt,  PxKt; 
16  Kt-K2,  &c. 

(5)  12  ..,  Kt-Kt3;  13  B.Kt3,  Kt-BS ;  14  RxP,  KtxKt;  15  PxKt,  QxQcb; 
16BxQ,BxP+. 

(6)  If  13  ..,  QxRP;  14  KtxBP I    (C.  E.  R.) 

(7)  14    ..,   QxP;    15  RxP,  Kt-B3 ;    16  B-R3,  R-Qsq;    17  BxPch,  K-Rs^; 
13  B.Q6,  Q.Kt4;  19  P-K6.  QxR;    20  BxQ,  RxQcb;    21  RxR-f-. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

m* 

(6)  CcntmuedlSBxB,  PxB;    19  R-K4,  R-B4;    20  B-B4,  Et-Kt3;    21  B-Kt3, 
and White recovers the Pawn. 

(9)  9  Kt.QB3,  P-B4  (or Kt-R4 ;    10  Kt-K2,  Q-B3);     10  P x  P en pan  (if B  x P. 
Kt-R4),  Kt X  P ;    11  Kt x  Kt,  P x  Kt ;   12  QB x  P,  R-Ksqch ;  13  Kt-K2.    {Handbuch.) 

(10)  10  B-KKt3,  Kt-K6 ;    11  Q-K2,  Q x  QP ;    12  P-B3,  Q-Kt3  ;    13  B-Kt3,  B-K3 ; 

14  Kt-Q2,  Kt-B3;  15KtxKt,  BxB;  16  Kt-K7ch,  K-Rsq;  17  PxB,  KR-Ksq; 
18Kt-B4,KtxKt;  19PxKt,  B-B3;  20O-O-p,RxKt;  21QxP,B-Kt2.  (Thornton V.  Steinitz.     A.  S.) 

(11)  ll..,P-QB4;    12P-B3(a),  PxP;    13  KtxKtP,  Q-K3;  14Kt-B2,  Q-QKt3; 

15  P-B4,  B-K3;    16  Kt-Q2,  Kt-Q2+.     (Steinitz v.  Zukertort.) 

(a)  12Kt-QB3,  QxPch;  13QxQ,  PxQ;  14  Kt.Q5,  Kt-.B3:  15  KtxKt,  PxKt; 

16  Kt-K7ch,  K-Rsq;  17KtxP,  B-Kt2;  18  Kt-K5,  QR-Bsq.   (Steinitz v.  Blackburne.) 

(12)  If  12  KtxKt.  PxKt;    13  B-K3,  P.QB4  + , 

(13)  11 
15Kt-K2+. 

Kt-B3;    12  0-0,  K-Ktsq;    13  B-Kt5,  P-KR3;    14  BxKt,  BxB; 

(14)  Mr.  Banken's suggestion.  Mr.  Wayte prefers White,  Black's development being difficult.    The Handbuch gives  16  . . ,  P-KR3  ;    17  B x  Kt,  B x  B ;    18  P-R5+ . 

(15)  If  7  B-Q3,  P-Q3;  8  Kt-B4,  Kt-R4  or P-Q44-.  If  7  KtxKtP,  KtxP; 
8  B x  P,  Q.K2  or  0-0  + .  If  7  B x  P,  P-Q3  ;  8  Kt-B4,  Kt x  P ;  9  B.Q3,  Q-K2  or  0-0  I 
(C.  E.  R.) ;   10  Q-K2,  P-KB4  or B.B4-f . 

(16)  If  7  P X  P,  Q.K2ch  ;  8  K-B2,  B-Q6ch and wins.  If  7  P-Q4,  PxP;  8  B x  P. 
QxQP;  9  QxQ,  BxQ;  10  P-B3,  Bx.Kt-f .  If  7  Kt-B3  or P-Q3  or P-B3,  PxP. 
If  7  Q-B3,  Q-K2,  &c. 

(17)  Or  7  ..,  K:t-K2;  8  PxP  (or P-Q3),  0-0;  9  B-K2  or Kt.B3,  Kt.B4+. 

(18)  In a  game  "with;  Anderssen,  Zukertort,  who introduced Black's  11th move, 
notes that  16  Kt-KR4  is not so good as the text move.  Whito^may reply by  17  B-K2 
or R-Rsq. 

(19)  18  Kt-Q3,  B-B4;  19  Kt.R3,  R-Qsq;  20  Kt-QB2,  BxP;  21PxB,  KtxP; 
22  KtxKt,  RxKt;  23  R-Bsq  (if K-B2,  P-QR3),  BxKt;/ 24  BxB,  RxBch; 
25  It-Ksq,  R-Q7;  26  R-B3,  R-K7ch  ;  27  K-Qsq,  RxQKtP;  28  BxKP,  Kt-B8 
and wins. 

(Col.  26.) 

(Col.  27.) 

Mm km iii^i m  i m 

mi i  £± 

&A3.MM. 

I t  SI i 

r^4 

tmmm m^mmi 

=  ^^  -^  mm fei  2^  ^p After Black's  8tb move. 

After White's  11th move. 

in THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Tabi,e  104. -THE KIESERITZKY GAMBIT. 

1  P-K4,  P-K4;    2  P-KB4,  PxP;    3    Kt.KB3,  P.KKt4; 
4  P.KR4,  P.Kt5;    5   Kt.K5^  P.KR4. 

'   6 

^     P-Q4   (dia.)     P-Q4       (9)  

^^"        —     Q-B3  P-Q3     (10)  FB6 

8     K^-Q9              Kt-QB3  (7)  KtxBP KtQ3  P-Kt3?(20) 

^""                P-B3  RxKt P-B6  (13)    Kt-QB3 

Kt-K2  B X Rch PxP  (14)    Kt-Kt6  (21) 

P-Q3  KxB B-K2  (15)    B-Kt2    (22) 

9 

n 

12 
18 
14 

16 

B-B4 

(1) 

Kt-KR3 
P-Q4   (c lia.) 

P-Q3 
Kt-Q3 

(2) 

P-B6 
PxP 

(3) 

B-K2 
B-K3 

W BxPch E-Q2 

PxP QxP B-Kt5 
Q-B4 ! 

(5) 

Kt-B3 
Kt-B3 

KtxP BxKt B-Kt4 
BxR BxQch KtxP 

(6) 

83  84  85 

R-R2 

QBxP BxP BK3  B-KKtS PxKt B-R3  BxPch B-B3 

BxKP  0-0  K-Q2  Q-Q2 

Q-K2  K-Kt2    (11)    PxP     (16)  BxB 

0-0         (8)    P-KKt3(12)    Qxt PxB R.Kt8^  BxB B-Kt5(dia.)  PxKt RxB Q-B4     (17)  BxKt-- 

B-K8-f Kt-Q2    (18)  R-Kt2-f Kt-B3 

Kt-Kt3 
B-Kt3 

1^   B^Kti      ■  llKtr' 

P-K5-^(19) 
B.Kt4— 

(1)  If  6  P-Q4,  P-Q3;  7  Kt-QS,  P-B6,  &c. 

iS)  7  ..,B-K2;  8  QBxP,  BxPch;  9  P-KKt3,  B-Kt4;  10  RxP  (or  10  Q-Q2 
C.  E.  R.),  BxB;  11  PxB,  P-Q3 ;  12  KtxKtP.  BxKt;  13  QxB,  KtxQ; 
URxRch,  K-Q2;    15RxQch,  KxR;    16  Kt-Q2-f . 

(3)  9  P-KKt3,  P-KB4  (or Kt-QB3,  or B-Kt2) ;  10  Kt-B3,  PxP,  11  KtxP, 
Kt.B4;  12  K-B2.  (MacDonnell v.  Bird.)  If  9  ..,  P-Q4 ;  10  PxP,  Kt-B4; 
11  K-B2,  Kt X  QP  (if B-K2,  Kt-K5  1 ) ;    12  B-KKt6-i-.    (Synopsis.) 

(4)  Or  10  B-B4,  BxPch;  U K-Q2,  PxP;  12  QxP,.B-Kt5%  13  Q.K34-. 
U  10  B-KKt5,  BxB;    11  PxB,  QxP,  &c. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

193^ 

(5)  If  13  Q-Bsq,  B-Kt4 ;  14  Q-Ktsq to bring Q  Eook to King's side as opportunity permits. 

(6)  If  17  ..,Q-Kt4?;  18  QKt-Q5+.    If:  17  ..,  P-QB3;    18  QR-KBsq,  Q-Kt4 ; 

19  B-Q4,  &c. 

(7)  Or  8  P-B3 1  for the attack is hardly worth a  piece.  If then  8  . . ,  B-Q3 ; 
9  Kt-Q3,  P-B6;  10  PxP,  B-Kt6ch;  11  K-Bsq,  PsQ3 ;  12  B-KKtS,  QxPch; 
13  QxQ,  PxQ;  14  Kt-Q2  =  . 

(8)  If  12  BxR,  Q-Kt5ch+. 

(9)  7  KtxBP,  RxKt;  8  BxRch,  KxB;  9  PQ4,  P-B6;  10  PxP^  P-Q3+. 
Or  9  ..,B-R3;   lOBxP,  P-Q3  +  . 

(10)  If  7  ..,  B-K2;  8QBxP,  BxPch;  9  P-KKt3,  B-Kt4 ;  IO'RxP,  RxR; 
tl B  X Pch,  &c.    If  7 . . ,  Q-B3  ;  8  Kt-B3  I,  Kt-K2 ;  9  0-0,  B-R3  ;  10  QB x  P,  B x  B  ; 

11  P-KKt3 + .    If  7  . . ,  B-R3  ;  8  Kt-B3,  Kt-QB3 ;  9  Kt x  BP ! 

(11)  Ifll  ..,BxB;   12RxBch,  K-Kt2;   13  Kt-B3,  B-K3 ;   14  Q-Q2,  Kt-KB3; 

15  QR-KBsq,  QKt-Q2 ;   16  RxKt,  KtxR;  17  Q-Kt5ch,  &c. 

(12)  Or  12  Q-Q2 1     (E.  F.)    Compare this Col.  with Col.  11,  p.  163. 

(13)  If  8  . . ,  B.K2  ;  9  QB X  P.    If  8  . . ,  Q-K2 ;  9  Kt-B3.  Kt-KB3 ;  10  0-0. 

(14)  If  9  P.KKt3,  Kt-K2. 

(15)  If  9  ..,  P-Kt6;  10B-KKt5,  B-K2;  llBxB,  QxB;  12  K-Bsq. 

(16)  If  11  . .,  B-Kt4 ;  12  Q-Ktsq or P-B4+. 

(17)  Orl3Q-Bsq. 

(18)  Or  13  ..,  R-Kt2;  14  Zt-B3,  B.Kt4;  15  Q-B2,  Kt-Q2;  16  QR-KBsq.  If 
13  . . ,  Q-B3  ;  14  Kt-B3.    If  13  . . ,  Kt-Q.B3  ;   14  Kt-B3,  Kt x  P  ;  16  QR-KBsq,  B-B3 ; 

16  Kt-Q5,  B-Rsq;     17  QxB,  PxQ;     18  RxR,  Kt-B6ch;     19  RxKt,  PxR; 

20  RxB-f. 

(19)  If  16  QR-KBsq,  B-Kt4;  17  Q-B2,  Q-K2;  18  BxB,  QxBch;  19  Q.B4, 
P-KB3. 

(20)  White should play  8  PxP and transpose into Col.  34.  If  8  ..,  P-Q3; 
9  B-KKt5  (Kt-Q3l),  B-K2;  10  BxB,  KtxB;   li Kt-Q3,  Kt-Kt3+.    (Handbuch.) 

(21)  8  KtxKt,  QPxKt;    9  B-B4,  Q-K2;    10  Kt-B3,  B-K3;    11  P-Q5,  BxP; 

12  BxB,  PxB;  13  QxP,  P-QB3+, 

(22)  Or  9  ..,  PxKt;    10  BxKt^  R-Rsq. 

(Col.  31.) 

(Col.  84.) 

IlilliBiB 
■ m 

^"«' 

m w  m 

^^.:  ^ 

^^"z,  ^-' 

IS liiii    ■!■! 
■ 

^..!?^.,^^^ 

M^ 

After White's  7th move. 

After Black's  12th move. 

m THE KING'S aiMBITS. 

SECTION V. 

THE ALLGAIEE GAMBIT. 

lPvK4,P.K4;    2P.KB4,PxP;    3  Kt-K B8,>P.KKt4  ; 
4  P-KR4,  P.Kt5;    5  Kt-Kt  5  . 

liliS^II^ii 

..til  *,.-•,  *..«.  * 

THE Allgaier Gambit is opened in the same way as the Kiegeritzky but by varying hi^  fifth move,  the first player offers a  piece to deprive his opponent of the shelter afforded by the King's side Pawns, 
and prevent him Castling.  Black cannot do better than accept the sacrifice.  A series of attacking moves is thus placed at White's disposal, 
and his success or failure will largely depend on the order in which they are made,  and how long he can keep up the pressure.  The ordinary rules with-  regard to minute advantages do not obtain in this opening.  The struggle on one side is"  to secure a  winning position with a  few pieces well combined,  and on the other to bring the reserves into action and compel exchanges.  The loss of a  move by either player is generally of more consequence than the loss of a  Pawn or the exchange.  With a  piece already in hand,  it is frequently good policy on the part of the second player to give. up his queen for two pieces,  and so equalise the forces,  and break up the attack. 

The Allgaier yields positions which are among the finest in Chess. 
It is especially rich in brilKant endings.  It was played in Philidor's time, 
but is named after the German writer,  Allgaier,  who devoted considerable attention to it,  and thought it invincible.  His leading line of play  (Col.  4) 
was found faulty by Horny.  It was superseded by that ascribed to Prince Ouroussoff  (Cols.  18-20)  and more recently by Mr.  Thorold's variation 
(Cols.  5-17).  The last mentioned leads to the most enduring attack,  and is generally preferred in this country. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS.  195  • 

Table  106.— THE ALLGAIER GAMBIT. 

K4,  P.K4;    2P.KB4,   PxP,    3  Kt -KB3,  P  •  KKt4  ; 
4  P-KR4,   P-Kt6;    5  Kt-Kt5. 

2  3  4  5 

10 
11 

i 

12 
18 
14 

P-Q4       (1)     P-KB3  P-KR4  p:KR3 ! 

PxP?    (2)     QxP B-B4  KtxP P-KR3  P-KR4  Kt-KR3  KxKt Kt-K4     (3)     QB5  P-Q4  QxP P-Q4     (10) 

P-KB4  PxKt.  P-KB3  Kt-KB3 !         P-Q3 

KKt-B3           Q-Kt6ch BxP QxBP B-B4ch(ll) 

B^Q8               K-K2  PxKt B-Q3 !  (7)    iTEtS P-Q4               QxPch PxP B-B4ch BxP Kt-KB3+        K-Ksq Kt-B2     (4)    K.Kt2  Kt-KB3 

Q-K5ch P-Kt6  Q-B2  (8)    Q-Q3     (12) 

Q.K2  Kt.Q3     (5)    R-Bsq Q-Ksq QxR BxKt  0-0  Kt-B8 

QxKPch PxB Kt-Kt5  Kt-B3 

B-K2  B-B7ch Q-Q4ch P-R5ch QxKtP K-K2  B-K4  KtxP QxPch  00  Q-Q5  RxKt K.K2  Q-R4  RxRch Kt-Kt5 

Q-Kt5ch  +  B:Q5  (6)    KxR Q-K2 

Q-B3ch   (9)    KxR    (18) 

(i;  If  5  ..,  Kt-KB3;  6  P-Q4,  P-KR3 ;  7  KtxP,  KxKt ;  8  BxP  (if)  P.Q4; 
9  B-K2.    (Col.  11.)    If  6  . . ,  B-K2  ;  6  Q x  P. 

(2)  6  P-Q4  (Ouroussoff),  P-KRS  ;    7  Kt x  P,  K x  Kt ;    8  B x  P,  &fc. 

(3)  If  7  Q-K2cb,  Kt-K2  ;  8  Kt-K4,  B-Kt2+. 

(4)  If  9  ..,Kt.Kt9q;   10B-K5. 

(5)  If  10  ..,Kt-Kt4;  11  QQ2  (or B-K5),  KtxP;  12  Bch,  K.K2;  13  B-Kt5ch. 
Kt in  ;  14  Q-K3ch,  K-Q3  ;  15  P.B4  and wins :  if  12  Kt.B3.  Kt x  Q ;  13  B oh,  and 
14  Kt mates. 

(6)  14  . .,  S-Ksq ;   15  Q-Bsq,  K-Qsq ;   16  Q-Kt5ch,  B-K2  ;   17  P-Kt7  and wins. 

(7)  Horny's move.    The Col.  runs as played between Thorold and Macdonnell. 
(3)  If so played on move  9  Black's reply is, K-Kt2.    If now  10  Q-B6,  B-Kt6cliand K-Bsq  :    if  10  Q-B3,  Kt-B3+. 

(9)  Black mates in six moves. 

(10)  Ur.  Thorold's attack. 

(11)  OrSBxP,  B-K2;  9B-K2,BxPch;  10  P-KKt3,  B-Kt4 ;  11  0-0,  &c. 

(12)  OrlOKt-B3!    (Potter.) 

(13)  l9  P-R3.  Kt-B3;  16  0-0-0.  K-Kt3;  17  Kt-Q5,  E-R2;  19  P.K5,  R*62; 
19  B'QSch,  K.Kt2;    20Kt-B6-f-.    (Gunsbsrg v.  Ballard.) 

196  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  106.— THE ALLGAIER GAMBIT. 

1  P-K4,  P-K4;    2P-KB4,PxP;    8  Kt- KB3,  P -KKt4 ; 
4  P-KR4,  P-KtS;    5  Kt-Kt5,   P-KR8;    6  KtxP,  KxKt; 
7  P-Q4,  P-Q4;    8  B X  P. 
6  7  8  9  10 

8 

PxP(l)  dia.  p.  197  B-K3 

B-B4ch  (2)  B-Q3     (17) 

K-Kt2     (3)  Kt-KB3 

0-0  Kt-B3  B-K5ch(14)     0-0 

Kt-KB3  Kt-KB3  B-Q3  Kt-KB3(di.)    K-Kt2 

Q-Q2       (4)  Q-K2      (9)  0-0  Q-Q2     (15)     Kt-B3 

Kt-B3  B-Q3     (10)  BxB Kt-B3  B-K5} 

Kt-B3  0-0  RxB Q-B4     (16)    Kt-Kt5 

B-Q8       (6)  R-KBsq(ll)  Kt-KB3  B-Q3  Kt-R3 

Kt-K2     (6)  BxPch Q-K2  Kt-B3  B-K5 

BxB KxB QxPch Q-K2  P-B3 

RxE Q-KSch K-Rsq Kt-Q5  Kt-B3 

Kt-K4  K-Kt3   (12)  R-Bsq BxB+  •Q-Q2 

Q-B3  Q-Kt5ch QR-KBsq Q-Q2 

^^    KtxB K-R2  (18)  QR-KBsq QxKt KtxP Q-B4 

^^    R-Bsq     (7)  KtxKt Kt-Kt5  + 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 

17 

Kt-KtS B-KtSch Q-Q3+   (8)      and draws 

(1)  If8..,B.Kt2;  9Kt-B3,  PxP;  10  B-B4ch,  K-KtS  ;  11  Kt-Q5,  «S:c.:  or  9.., 
Kt.KB3;  10  KtxP,  KtxKt;  11  B-B4.  If  8  ..,  B-K2  ;  9  B-K2,  BxPch; 
10  P-KKt3.  If  8  ..,  Kt-QB3;  9  Kt-B3,  B-Kt5;  10  B-K2:  or  9  ..,  Kt-B3 ; 
10  KtxP,  KtxKt or' KtxP;  11  B.B4.  If  8  ..,  P-B3;  9  B-K2,  P-KR4 ; 
10  0-0,  &c. 

(2)  If  9  B.K2,^P^KR4;    10  B-K5,  B-Kt2;    11  0-Och,  K-Kt3+. 

(3)  If  9  ..,  k-ksq;  10  B-K5 1.  If  9  ..,  K-Kt3  ;  10  Kt-B3,  B-Kt2  (for  10  ... 
B-Q3  compare Col.  8) ;  11  Kt-Q5  (E.  F.) :  or  10  P-R5ch,  K.I12  ;  11  B-B7,  B-KB4 
(Kt-K21);    12  B-Kt6ch,  BxB;    13  PxBch.    (Pierce.) 

(4)  If  11  Kt-B3,  B-Q3;   but if now  11  ..,  B-Q3 ;   12  B-KKt51 

(5)  12  ..,  QxPch;  13  QxQ,  KtxQ;  14  B-K5,  Kt-B4 ;  15  KtxP,  B-K2; 
16  R-B4,  (if)  P-KR4;  17  QR-KBsq,  K-Kt3 ;  18  Kt-Kt31,  KtxKt;  19  RxKtch, 
&c. 

(6)  If  13  B-K3,  Kt-QR4;  14  RxKt  (B-K2  is a  fatal loss of time),  QxR  (if KtxB,  15  BxPch);    15  B-Q5,  B-KB4 ;    16  R-KBsq,  Q-Kt3;    17  KtxP,  Kt-B3,+. 

(7)  Or  16  . ..  Q-K2  followed by B-K3.     (C.  E,  R.) 

(8)  If  13  QR-KBsci,  B.K3;    19  P-Q5,  KtxPr THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

197- 

(9)  11  Q.Q2,  B-Q3  (if  11  ...  Kt-QB3;  12  Kt-K2  or Kt5,  B-Q3:  if  12  P.Q5. 
Kt-K2  ;  13  Kt-Kt5,  Kt-Kt3  :  perhaps  12  0-0-0  is best) ;  12  B-KKt5  (if  12  R-Bsq, 
P-K6I),  B-K2;  13  R-KBsq.  Kt-B3 ;  14  KtxP^  KtxKt;  15  R-B7ch.  K-Kt3; 
16  Q-B4,  KtxB  (or  16  ...  B-Kt5chl  17  P-B3,  QxP.  Potter);  17  PxKt,  Q-Q3 ; 
18  R-Kt7ch.  K-R4;  19  K-K2  I,  KtxPch;  20  QxKt,  Q-R7  ;  21  B-B7ch,  K-R5; 
22  Q-K4,  BxP;    23  R-KRsq,  Q x R ;    24  P-Kt3ch-[-.     (Freeborough v.  Amateur.) 

(10)  11  . . ,  Q X  P  ;  12  R-Qsq gives White a  strong attack  \xith a  move gained. 
If  11  ..,  Kt-B3;  12  0-0-0,  KtxP;  13  RxKt  (or  13  Q-B2,  P-QB4 ;  14  B-K5. 
Q.K2  ;   15  Q-B4,  &c.     Potter.),  Q x  R  ;   14  R-Qsq,  Q-B4  ;   15  B-K3,  Q-K4  (Q-KR4  I) ; 

16  B-Q4,  (if)  Q-B5ch ;    17  K-Ktsq,  B-l5:2 ;     18  Kt-Q5,  Q-Q3 ;     19  R-Bsq,   R-Bsq ; 

20  Q X  KP,  B-K3 ;    21  B-Q3,  &c. 

(11)  Or  12  ..,  BxB;  13  RxB,  QxPch;  14  K-Rsq,  R-Bsq  (if  14  ..,  Kt.R4 ; 
15  RxKtPch,  K.R2;     16  R-KBsq) :    if  15  KtxP,  KtxKt;     16  RxKt,  Q-B3; 

17  R-K7ch,  K-Rsq;     18  R-K8,    Kt.B3  I ;    19  RxRch,  QxR;    20  R-KBsq,  B-B4; 

21  B-Q3  1     See Col.  8.     Another alternative is  12   . . ,  Kt-B3. 

(12)  If  14  ..,  K-R2;    15  KtxP,  after which B-Q3  becomes available. 

(13)  If  15  ..,  P-B3;  16  KtxP:  or if  15  ...  P-QKt4  ;  16  B-Kt3,  QKt-Q2  (a) ; 
17Kt-Q5,  &c.  If  15  ..,Kt-B3;  16  KtxP,  KtxKt;  17  RxKt,  RxRch;  18QxB, 
Q-B3  ;   19  R-B4,  Q x  RPch  ;   20  K-Ktsq,  Kt.K4  ;  21  R-B7ch,  &c.     (F.  J.  Young.) 

(a)  If  16  ...  B-Kt2;    17  RxKt,  RxR;    18  QxKtPch+. 

(14)  Mr.  Potter suggests  10  Q-K2,  Kt-QB3  (or Kt-KB3)  (6) ;   11  P-Q5,  KWRi ; 

12  B-K5ch,  Kt-B3 ;    13  R-Bsq,  B-K2 ;    14  Kt-B3,  &c. 

(6)  If  10  ..,B-Q3;  11  B-K5ch  (or BxB),  BxB;  12  PxB,  Kt-QB3  (if  12.., 
Q.Q5 ;  13  Q-Bsq,  Q-K6ch  ;  14  K-Qsq,  Q-Q5ch  ;  15  Kt-Q2.  Potter) ;  13  Kt.Q2, 
Kt.Q5  (or Q-K2 !  to play B-K3) ;    14  Q-B2,  B-K3.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(15)  See diagram.     If  11  0-0  (c),  B.K2;    12  Kt-B3  (if P-Q5 ;   13  Bch),  Kt-B3; 

13  KtxP  (if Kt-Q5  or R-B4,  KtxB-f ),  KtxB  ;   14  KtxKt,  Kt-B6ch.     (Fraser.) 

(c)  If  11  R-Bsq,  B-K2;  12  Kt-B3,  Kt.B3  ;  13  Q-K2.  KtxP;  14  QxKP; 
Kt-B3+. 

(16)  If  12  R-KBsq,   B-K2-f . 

(17)  A similar line of play follows  9  B-K2,  or  8 
In this case White's  16th move may be R-B4. 

Kt.KB3 ;   9  B.K2.  B-K3. 

(Col.  6.) 

Hi if  '"^^  ""■■"■ 

After Black's  8th move. 

(Col.  9.) 

i HI mm 

^  ISl  *  Mil  *  iii After Black's  10th move. 

*198  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  107.— THE ALIiGAIER GAMBIT. 

1   P.K4,  P-K4;    2  P-KB4,  PxP;     3  Kt-E B  3  .   r-]?Kt'4; 

4   P.KR4,  P-Kt5;    5   Kt -Kt  6  ,   P-K R  3  ;    6  Kt x  r,  K x  Kt; 

7  P-Q4,   P.Q4;    8  BxP,  Kt-KB8.    C) 

11  12  13  14  15 

g B>K2t     (2.) B-K5?  P-Kg? 

Kt-BB FxP KtxP B-Q3  Kt-R4   (12) 

Kt-B3     (3)    Kt-B3     (4)     00  Kt-B3    (10)     B-K2     (13) 

K-Kt2  Kt-B3     (5)     K-Ksq     (8)    Kt-B3  KtxB B-K5  P-Q5  BxKtP KtxP  (11)     0-0 

B-K2  ErK2  BxB      (9)    KtxB K:Kt2         * 

BxKtP B-B4  QxB KtxKt RxKt 

10 
11 
12 
18 
U t5 
16 
17 

t>XP Kt-B3 

(4) 

Kt-B8 
P-Q5 

(5) 

Kt-K2 
B-B4 

K-Kt3? 
B-K5 

(6) 

B.Kt2 
P-R5ch K-R2 
Q-Q2 

B.B4 
0-0-0 

B-£Bsq Q-B4 

(7) 

KtxQB K-Kt3?  (6)  Q-Q2  Kt-B6ch P-KR4 

BxB B-K5  Q-Kt6ch PxKt Q-Bsq QxB B.Kt2  Q-B2  B-Kt6ch  -f B-K3 

PxKt P-R5ch QxQch R.B6 

EtM K-R2  TxQ R-R8 

PxP Q-Q2  B-K5discb Q.B4 

Q-B4  B-B4  K-Ktsq RxR Q-Q4     —  0-0-0  BxR4-  <Q^Kt5ch KR-Beq—  R-KBsq K-Rsq PxR B-B2    4- 

(1)  See note  1,  page  196,  for other variations. 

(2)  9  Kt-B3,  K-Kt2;  10  B-K2,  Kt-B3 ;  11  B-K5,  &c. :  9  ..,  B-Kt5 ; 
10  B-K5  (a),  KlxP;.  11  B-Q3,  KtxKt;  12  0-Och,  K-Ktsq;  13  Q-Ksq,  Kt-K5; 
U QxKt,  PxQ;  15  Bch+  (Guusberg) :  or  (a)  10  B-K2,  BxKtch;  11  PxB, 
KtxP;  12  0-0,  KtxP;   13  BxBPdisch,  K-Ktsq;    UBxQ,  KtxQ;    16QRxKt  =  . 

(3)  If  10  P-K6,  Kt-K5. 

(4)  10  B-KS,  B-Kt2  (Pierce) ;  11  0-0,  P.KR4 ;  12  Kt-B3,  K-KtS  (B.  C.  M., 
1882,  p.  241.) 

(5)  Or  10  ...,  B-Q3I    (E.  F.) 

(6)  If  12  ..,  K-Kt2  ;    13  P-R5  to transpose:    for if  13  Kt-Kt5,  Kt-Kt3  I 

(7)  17  . . ,  Q-Bsq  (Kt-Ksq !  C.  E.  R.) ;  18  P-Q6,  PxP;  19  B x  P,  KKt-Ktsq  ; 
20  BxICKtch,  KtxB;  21  BxR,  (if)  BxKt;  22  PxB,  QxB;  23  KR-Bsq, 
Kt-K2 ;    24  Q-K5,  threatening R.Q7,  &c.     {B.  C.  M.,  1886,  p.  375.) 

(8)  Or  10  ..,  K-Ktsq;    (if)  11  BxKtP,  R-R2.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(9)  Or  11  ..,  Kt-Q2.    (Potter.) 

(10)  10  Q-Q2,  ExB:    U PxB,  KtxP;    12  Q-B4ch,  K-Kt2-|.. 

(11)  11  B-Q3,  KtxB;    12  PxKt,  BxP;    13  0-0,  K-Kt2-f. 

(12)  9  ..,  Kt-K5  ;  10  B-QB,  P-B3  ;  11  0-0,  K-Ksq  ,  12  Kt-Q2,  B-KB4  ; 
13  Q-K2,  &c. 

(13)  If  10  B.Q3,  B-KS;  11  Kt-B3.  K-Kt2 1 ;  13  Q-Q2,  KtxB;  13  QxKt, 
B-Kt5,  and R.Bsq+.    (Pagan.)    See B.  C M.,  18&5,  p.  340. 

Table  108.— THE ALLGAIER GAMBIT. 

Kt. 

KB3, 

P-KKt4; 

6 

Ktx P 

.   K X  Kt. 

19 

20 

K4,P.K4-    2P.KB4.PxP;     3 
KR4,   PKtS:     5   Kt-Kt5.   P-KR3 

17  18 

B.B4ch  (9) 

P-Q4! 

B-KB4  jTi.)     BxPch B-K2  P-Q4       (6)     K-Kt2  K-Ksq B-QB4ch(2)     Q-Q2  P-Q4  BxP P-Q4 

10 
11 
12 
13 

P-Q4  PxKP  (7)     Q-B3     (10)  BxB     (13)  Kt-KB3(16) 

B X  Pch(di.)  B-K5  Q-Q3     (11)  QxPch Kt-B3 

K-Ksq     (3j Kt-KB3  Kt-K2  K-B2  B-Kt5 

0-0         (4)  Q-B4  Kt-B3  Q-R5ch BxBP P-Kt6  B-Q3  (8)     QKt-B3  K-K2 !  KtxB P.KB4  PxP P-K5  Q-K5ch PxKt P:kR4  KPxP Q-Kt3  K-Q2  BxKtph B  X Kt     (5)  ^^-^^  B-K4  QxR PxB B-KKtS  ^^-^^  B-B4  Kt-KB3  QxQP Q-Q3  Q-QQ BxP P-K5     (14)  Q-K2ch 

^*    RxB Q-K2+  R.Qgq   (12)  BxP K-B2 

Q>Kt3  BxB R-R2  0-0 

^^    K3i5  QxB P-B6  K-Kt8 

QxQKtP QxQ QxKt B-K5+(17) 

*^    QxPch KtxQ QxQ K.Kt2  P-Q5  ExQ    (15) 

^^    B-K74-  Kt-Kt5-f 

(1)  9  ..,  Q-Ksq;     10  B-QB4ch,  K-K2  ;     11  QBxP,  K-Qsq.     (Potter.) 

(2)  If  9  B-K3,  BxPch;  10  K-Q2,  P-Q3+ :  or  10  ..,  P.Q4  ;  11  Kt-B3. 
QPxP;     12  B-B4ch,  K-Kt2 ;     13  P-B4,  B-KB4,  &c. 

(3)  If  10  ..,  K-Kt2;  11  B-K3,  BxPch;  12  K-Q2,  Kt-QBS  (12  ..,  Kt-KB3 
also feasible.    C.  E.  R.) ;     13  P-KB4,   P-KR4 ;     14  P-B3,  &c. 

(4)  11  B-K3,  BxPch;  12  K-Q2,  P-KR4  (or Kt.KB3  I C.  E.  R.);  13  Kt.B3, 
P-B3  (Pierc9,  Gosssip,  &c.) ;  14  B-Kt3,  B-Kt4  ;  (if)  15  P-B4,  BxP+:  if  16  BxB, 
QxBch;    16  K-Q3,  P.QKt3+.    If  11  Q-Q3,  BxPch;     12  K-Qsq,  Kt-QB3,  &c. 

(5)  13  Kt-KB3,  B-QKt5;  14  Q-K2,  QxRP  (Wonnald).  Dr.  Schmi<i gives 
13  P-B5,  Kt-KB3  ;  14  }Ct-B3,  Kt-Kt5 ;  15  P-K6,  B x  RP  ;  16  P-B6,  Kt-B7  ;  (if) 
17'P-B7ch,   K-Bsq;     18  Q-B3  or Q2,  B-Kt5. 

(6)  8  ..,  P-B7ch;  9  KxP,  P-Q4  ;  10  B-K2,  Kt-KB3 ;  11  R-Bsq,  KtxPch; 
12  K-Ktr-q,  and the position is that in Col.  13  after White's  10th move.  If  8  .., 
B-K2;  9  Q-Q2  (B-Kt3  loses time),  PxP;  10  KB x P,  BxPch ;  11  K-K2,  P-Q3; 
12  Kt-B3,  B.B3;  13  QR-KBsq.  If  8  ..,  P-Q3 ;  9  Q-Q2,  Kt-QB3  (or P-B3): 
10  Kt-B3,  B.Kt2 ;    11  B-K3,  Kt.B3 ;    12  0-0-0.    If  8. .,  Kt-KB3;    9  PxP. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

d 

(7)  If  9  ..,  B.K3;  10  B-KS,  Kt-KB3 ;  11  Q.B4,  P-BS ;  12  Kt.Q2  f to stop B-Rt5.  If  9  ..,  Kt-KB3;  10  B-K5,  KtxP;  11  Q-B4ch,  Kfc-KB3 ;  12  Kt-B3. 
B-Kt5;  13  0-0-0.  If  9  ..,  B.Q3;  10  P-K5,  Q-K2;  11  Kt-B3,  B-KtS ;  12  0-0-0. 
&c. 

(8)  11  ..,  Kt-B3;  12  Kt-B3,  KtxP;  13  0-0-0,  P.B4 ;  U KtxP:  or  11  ... 
B-K2  or Kt2;    12  Kt-B3,  Kt-B3  ;    13  0-0-0,  &c. 

(9)  Prince Ouroussof£*s attack. 

(10)  9  ..,  Kt-KB3;  10  Kt-B3,  P.B6  (if  10  ..,  Kt-R4 ;  11  Kt-K2.  Pierce); 
11  PxP,  B-Kt5:  if  10  0-0,  KtxB;  11  PxKt,  QxRP or B-Q3:  if  10  QBxP, 
Kt X  B  ;  11  P X  Kt,  B-Q3.  Dr.  Sclimid gives also  9  . . ,  P-B6  (or B-Q3  I C.  E.  R.) ; 
10  P X  P,  P-Kt6  I The Praxis gives the older play  9  . . ,  B.K2. 

(11)  10  P-K5,  Q-B4;  11  0-0,  P.B6;  12  BxBP?  (Pierce.)  Zukertort against Steinitz played  10  ..,  Q-KKt3 ;  11  P-115,  Q.B4 ;  12  0-0,  P-B6;  13  Kt-Q2 
(B X  KBP.  Pierce),  Kt-K2  ;  14  B-K4,  Q x  RP  ;  15  Kt x  P,  QKt.B3  (15  . . ,  P x  Kt gives Black a  difficult game)  ;  16  Kt-R2,  Kt-Kt3  and ultimately won.  If 
10  Kt.QB3,  B-Kt5. 

(12)  Or  14  ..,  BxB!    (Schmid.) 

(13)  Simpler and better than P-B6  which runs thus :— 9  . . ,  P-B6  ;  10  B x  B 
(if  10  BxR,  PxP;  11  R-Ktsq,  QxRPch+),  QxB;  11  PxP,  B-Q3.  (Steinitz gives P-K:R4  or Kt-KB3— P-Kt6  is inferior);    12  R-Ktsq.  P-Kt6;   13  P-Q4,  Q-R6; 

14  Q-K2,   Kt-QB3;    15  B-K3,  KKt-K2;     16  Kt-B3,   Kt-Kt3;     17  P-K5,  B-Kt5; 
18  0-0-0 +. 

(14)  Dr.   Schmid suggests as rather less disadvantageous  14  P-QKt3,  BxP; 

15  B.Kt2  or R3. 

(15)  17  ..,  B-B4  (if B-Q3;  18  RxB);  18  P-Q4,  BxP;  19  Kt-Q2,  B-K4 1 ; 
20  KtxP,  BxKt;  21  R-R3,  «fcc. :  if  19..,  Kt-B3  ;  20  KtxP,  R-Ksqch;  21  K-Q2, 
&c. 

(16)  9  . .,  P-B6  1 ;  10  PxP,  B-K2,  and position reverts to Col.  16.  Black may vary by  10  ..,  P-Kt6  (Schmid),  or  10  ..,  Q-B3  (B.  C.  M.,  1882,  p.  238). 

(17)  If  16  ..,  R-Ktsq;  17  Q-Q3ch,  K-R4 ;  18  R-B6ch-i-.  Black may however play  14  ..,  K-Qsq. 

(Col.  16.)  (CoL  17.) 

rf 

1   ^...WS  ....   ^>^:m.WM im i 

^'.,„.„'^^y^^ 

I 

'mm^''''r''fm, 

^^1 

mm,  X mm i,  m B^«i^»l     « 

Z'i.  "^  g if i  if I  «#■ 

■mm «p--f*«#T^ 

■ m  &  m.k^ 

m r^i wm.,„„wm 

« 

mk30m After White's  10th move. 

After White's  8th move. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

201^ 

S.ECTION VI. 

THE CUNNINGHAM GAMBIT. 

i P.Ki,  P-K4;    2P.KB4,  PxP;    3  Kt-KBS,  B.K2; 
4  B-B4,  B-RSch. 

C<^f^      •      ?;% 

m 

^ 

i ilillBlili 

'*«^*i I 

P. 

i^ 

g'^llftS   ■ 

THE defence of the King's Gambit by  4  ...,  B-K2  has at first sight an advantage over the usual play arising from  4  ...,  P-KKt4,  for it disturbs the attacking player's arrangement more than that of his adversary.  But the student will soon discover that appearances are deceptive in this opening,  and that White shortly obtains ample com- 
pensation for the damage done to his position.  After Black's fourth move  (B-R5ch)  the opening branches in two very different directions. 
By moving his King to Bishop's square,  as in the Bishop's Gambit,  the first player may secure a  good development,  recovering Lis Gambit Pawn without difficulty  ;  or he may give up three Pawns and add considerably to the strength of his attack.  The former is the correct play,  the latter leads to the most animated game,  and constitutes the Cunningham Gambit proper.  It is not quite sound,  although extremely troublesome to defend. 

This opening has been little,  favoured by first class players with the exception of l^lr.  Bird,  to whose games v/e are indebted for several of our columns.  It is the  '•  Three Pawns Gambit "  of the early writers Bertin and Stamma.  It has been ascribed to Cunningham the historian,  but Mr.  Wayte  {B.  C.  M-.,  1888,  p.  129)  has pointed out that this is an error, 
and that the credit of introducing it as a  playable game should be given to another Scotchman,  Alexander Cunningham,  of Block,  a scholar, 
critic,  and Chess player,  who lived at the Hague in the early part of the eighteenth century,  and who was visited there by Chess players from, 
all parts of Europe.  ? 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  109,— THE CUNNINGHAM GAMBIT. 

P.K4,  P.K4;    2  P-KB4,   PxP;     3  Kt-KBS.   B.K2 
4  B-B  4  (1) .    B-R  5  ch.     (Dia.  p,  201.) 

12  8  4  5 

K-Bsq. 

10 

Kt-KR3  P-Q3  P-Q4  B-B3       (8) 

P-Q4  P-Q4  BxP P-K5 

Kt-Kfe5    (2)  B-Kt5  (3)    Kt-KB3  B^K2 

Q-K2  QBxP  (4)    Kt-B3  p.Q4 

Kt-B7  Q-B3  0-0  KtxB F^Qi KtxB B-K3  P-Q4 KtxKt B-K2 

KtxR Kt-K2  P-B3       (5)  0-0         (6)  P-QB4    (§) 

Kt-KB3  QKt-Q2  B-Kt3  KtxB     (7)  P.B3    — 

Kt-Kt6ch P-KR3  B-Kt5  QxKKt Q.]Kt3  — '  ' 

PxKt P-KR3  QBxP KtxQBP? 

PxP BxKt Kt-R4  Kt-B3 

B-B4  or KtxB Q-Q2  KtxR 

11         KKt5+        Kt-Q2  BxKt Kt-Q5 

K-Ktsq^  PxB Kt-B7 

*^  B-Kt6  K-Rsq iP-B6  + 

Q-Q2+  R-KKtsq  + 
19 

(1)  4  P-KR4  prevents the check,  but with no advantage.  See p.  161,  TTable  62, 
Cols.  3-6. 

(2)  Or  6  ..,  0-0;,  7  QBxP,  Kt-KtS ;    Q.K2,  &c. 

(3)  If  6..,  Q-B3;  7  P-KS,  PxP;  8  PxP,  Q-K2 ;  9  QBxP.  B-Kt5 ; 
10  Kt-BS;  P-QB3;    11  Kt-K4-j-. 

(4)  Or  7  Kt-B3l   (Wisker).    The Col.  to move  12.ds Stemitz v.  Bird. 

(5)  8  . . ,  Kt X  B ;  9  P x  Kt,  (or Kt x  Kt I),  B-Kt4  ;  10  P-KR4,  B-R5  ;  11  Q-Q3, 
P.KB4;    12  Q-B4,  K-Rsq;    13    Kt-K2+    {Handbuch).    The Col.  is Wisker v.  Bird. 

(6)  So played by Bird.     {Modern Chess,  p.  186.) 

(7)  9  P-Q3,  B-Kt5;  10  BxP,  P-KB4  ;  11  Q-K2,  PxP;  12  PxP,  Kt-B8 ; 
13  R-Qsq,  Q-Ksq;  14  P-KKt3,  K-t-K4  ;  15  KtxP,  RxB;  16KtxQ,  RxKtch; 
17  K-Kt2,  RxKt;  18  Q-Kt6,  QR-KBsq  ;  19  QxKt,  R-B7ch  ;  20  K-Ktsq, 
B-R6.,  and wins.    (Macdonnell v.  Bird.)    9  P-Q4  transposes into note  5. 

(8)  If6..,  B-Kt4;    6  P-Q4,  P-Q3 ;    7  KtxB,  QxKt!    8  Q-B3-I-. 

(9)  Wormald.  The Synopsin gives  8  ..»  P.KKt4 ;  9  P-KR4,  to Whits'9 
ftdT&utagft, 

Table  110.— THE CUNNINGHAM GAMBIT. 

P 

4   B It 

8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 

K4,   P-K4;     2  P-KB4,   P X  P Bl,   B.R5ch;    5P-KKt3,   Px 
7  K.Rsq. 

6  7  8 

P-Q4 
BxP n) 

Kt-KB3 
BxBPch(2) 

KxB KtxB R-Bsq P-Q4 

(3) 

K-Ktsq B-Kt5 

(4) 

KtxP BxQ RxRch QxR Kt-Kt6ch KxP KtxQch K-Ktsq Kt-K6  + 

B-Kt3 

KtxP Q-K2 

K-Bsq QxP 

;     3Kt-KB3,   B.K2; 
P;     6   0-0,   P X  Pch; 

9  10 

Q-K2 
BxPch Kt-Kt6ch k-Kt2 

KtxR QxB QxQ KtxQ KxB+^ 

P-Q3 
BxPch KxB Kt-K5ch  (5) 

K-Ksq     (6) 

Q-Roch P-KKt3 

KtxP PxKt QxPch K-Q2 

Q-B5ch K-B3 

Q-Q5ch   (7) 

Kt-KR3 
P-Q4 

P-Q4       (8) 

BxKt PxKB Kt-K5 

PxB KtxKBP Q-K2 
KtxR QxPch KxP B-Kt5 
Kt-B3 

Q-K3 
Q-Q2 

B-Kt4 
Q-B2+ 

B-K2? 
BxPch KxB Kt-K5di3.ch K-K3  (9) 
Q-Kt4ch k:q3 

Kt-B7  + 

(1)  If  8  PxP,  B-B3I  '{ii B-R6;  9  Q-K2ch) ;  9  Kt-K5,  ifB x Kt ;  l6*R-Ksq, 
Kt-K2;    .11  RxB,  0-0  +  . 

(2)  9  Kt-B3,  KtxB  ;  10  KtxKt,  B-Kt5  ;  11  Kt-K3  (Buckle).  If  9  KtxB, 
KtxB;  10  PxKt,  QxKt;  11  Q.K2ch,  K-Qsq;  12  QxP,  QxQch;.  13  KxQ, 
P-KB3  +  . 

(3)  If  11  P-Q3,  K-Ktsq;  12  B-Kt5.  P.KR3+.  If U  P-K5,  Q-Q4ch ; 
12  Kt-KB3,   Kt-R4,  &c. 

(4)  12  Kt-QB3  also  'gives Black the freer game., 

(5)  If9KtxBdisch,Kt.KB3;  10  P-Q4,R.Bsq;  U B.Kt5,  K-Ktsq;  12  Kt-QB3, 
P-KR3  +  . 

(G)    If  9  ..,  K-K2;    10  Q-R5,  PxKt,  and White draws. 

(7)  White draws by perpetual check. 

(8)  If  8  ..,  0-0;    9  BxKt,  PxB;    10  Kt-K5+. 

(9)  If  9  ..,  K-Ksq  (Handbuch and Synopsis)  ;    10  Kt.B7  (C.  E.  R.) 

Il_ 

204  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  111. -•THE CUNNINGHAM GAMBIT. 

1 

P 

•K4, 

p. 

•K4; 

2  P 

-KB4, 

Px P 

8 

4 

B 

.B4, 

B 

.R6ch; 

;     5 

7 

p-KKta K-R sq  , 

i,   PxP B-B8. 

1 

10 

11 

12 
18 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 

Kt-KB8,   B-K-2 
6  0-0 ,   P X  P ch 

11  12  13  14  15 

P-K5  Kt-K5  

P-Q4  BxKt Kt-KR3  P-Q4 !     (4) 

PxB Q-R5  Q-R5  BxP! 

KtxP Q-K2  Q-K2       (3)  B K3       (5) 

B-Kt3  RxP P-Q4  BXB B-K3  Q-B4  BxKt PxB P-Q4       (1)     R-B8d.ch!     BxKt Q-R5cb Kt-K5  K-K2  BxP P-KKt3 

B-KB4  P-Q4  RxP Q-B8 

P-KB4  QxP      (2)  QxPch Kt-Q2  QlC2 

QKt-Q2  B-Kt5ch R-B8dis.ch P-Q4  p.Q4 

Q-K2  K-Q3!  P-KKt3  Q-K2  BxKt     (6) 

P-B4  Kt-Q2  B-B7ch KtxKt PxB P-B8  Kt-KB8  K-K2  QxKt Kt-QB8 

PxP BxKt Q-Kt5ch+  P-K5  B-Kt5 

PxP Rx.R B-Kt2  Q-Kt2 

R-Bsq    --      P-B3  QxP Kt-B8 1 

Kt-QB3  —       Q-B4  Q-Q4ch P-KR3    (7) 

Kt-Kt8-f QxQ Kt-Kt5 

PxQ PxB Kt-B8  —  KtxBPch P-B3    —        K-Q2       (8) 

(1)  If  11  P-Q3,  P.KR3  ;    12  B.KB4.  P-B4,  &c. 

(2)  If  12  . . ,  Q X  B ;  13  Q-K8ch,  K-Q3 ;  14 '  Q x  KBch,  K-B3  ;  15  Kt-R3,  &c. 
If  12...  BxP;    13  Q-B7ch,  K-Q3 ;    14P-Kt4,  QxP;    15B-R3+:    orl4..,Q-B3; 

15  B-B4cli,  B-K4  ;    16  Kt-B3,  and wins. 

(3)  Or  9  ..,  0-0^  10  P-Q4,  BxKt;  11  BxKt  (or  11  PxBI),  BxP; 
12  RxP,  RxR;     13  BxRch,   K-Rsq ;      14  B-Kt5,  B-B3;      15  B-Kt6,  Q-Ktsq ; 

16  BxP and draws.    If  9..,  BxKt;    10  RxP.    If  9  . . ,  P-KKt3 ;    10  Q-B3. 

(4)  8  ..,  Q-K2;  9  P-Q4I,  BxKt  (or P-Q3I C.  E.  R.);  10  BxPch,  K-Qsq; 
11  PxB,  QxP;  12Kt-B3,  Kt-KB3;  13B.KB4,  Q-Ii2;  14P-K5,QxB;  ISPxKt, 
PxP,(P-KKt3l);    16B-K5+. 

(5)  Or  9  . . ,  B X  Kt t ;    10  Q-R5,  Q-Q3,  &c. 

(6)  If  13  ..,  Kt-B3;  14  KtxKt,  PxKt;  15  P-K5-f.  If  13  ...  Kt-QR3; 
14  Kt-B6l,  Q-Q2;  15  P-K5,  B-Kt2;  IG Kt-K7,  KxKt;  17  Q-B7ch,  K-Qsq; 
18  B-Kt5ch,  K-Bsq;     19  Q-B8ch  +  . 

(7)  If  16  . . ,  Kt x  P ;    17  Q-R3,  <fec. 

(8)  19  Kt X  R,  Kt-R3 1;    20  QR-Qsqch,  K-Bsq,  and the Kt is lost. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS.  20S SECTION VII- 

THE KING'S BISHOP'S GAMBIT. 
1     P-   K4.     P-K4;      2    P.KB4.    PxP;      8    B.B4 

THE development of the King's Bishop on the third move,  instead of the King's Knight  (as in Sees.  I.  to VI.),  varies the game in a  remarkable manner.  Black,  in reply,  has a  check with his Queen at KR5,  which,  although not quite so effective as in the Salvio Gambit 
(Sec.  IL)  prevents White castling,  and by keeping his King's Rook out of play stops many combinations available for the first player in Sec.  I. 
The Queen may,  however,  be driven away with the loss of a  time,  and there is a  weakened centre.  Upon this-  double foundation White is enabled to establish an enduring attack abounding in critical and difficult positions.  His Pawns and minor pieces occupy the centre of the board, 
and Black must be prepared to dispense with Castling,  and utilise his King for defensive purposes.  The Gambit Pawn is usually defended but cannot be maintained unless another Pawn is given for it.  Hence the opening has been called the strongest of the Gambits.  It has been a 
favourite with many^reat players,  and both attack'  and defence have been elaborated with much care and ingenuity. 

There are numerous lines of play for the defence.  The oldest, 
3  ...,  P-QB3  and Kt-KB3  (Lopez,  Salvio,  Cozio,  &c.),  deal with the central attack  (Cols.  1-5)  :  to these has been recently added  3  ..., 
Kt-QB3  (Maurian),  which is not altogether satisfactory,  in the light of an analysis by Professor Berger  (Cols.  16-20).  3  ...,  P-KB4  (Lopez, 
Gianuzio,  and Salvio),  to bring about similarity of position,  leads to 
^quality,  but the play is difficult  (Cols.  6-10).  3  ..,,  P-QKt4  (Bryan and Kieseritzky)  is a  risky counter gambit working out,  by analysis, 
unfavourably for the second player  (Cols.  13-15).  3  ..  ,  P-KR4  (Cols. 
11-12)  is insufficient against  4  P-KR4.  3  ...,  Q-R5ch is the usual play, 
combined with P-KKt4,  and frequently preceded by P-Q4  (Cols.  21-40). 
The analysis of tbis variation has been carried far into the game leaving the result undetermined.  Taking into consideration the number of possi- 
bilities left open on both sides the opening may be said to offer an even chance for both players.  The alternative moves  3  B-K2  (Cols.  41- 
A^)  and B-Q3  (Cols.  44-45)  are minor variations. 

206 

THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  112.— THE KING'S BISHOP'S GAMBIT. 

1  P-K4.    P.K4;      2  P-KB4,    PxP;      3B-B4 
12  8  4  5 

10 

11 

P-QB3    (1) 
P-Q4       (2) 
P-Q4 
PxP PxP B-Kt5ch Kt-QB3 

BxP Q-KtS Q.K2ch B-K3 

P-B3 

0-0-0 

Kt-B3  — 

Kt-B3  — 

Kt-KB3 
Kt-QB3 

B-Kt5 
P-K5 

P-Q4 

B-Kt5cb  (3) 

P-B3       (4) 

PxKt PxB Q-K2ch B-K3 

QxPch Kt-B3 

Kt-B3 

(5) 

QxP QxKtP P-B3 
Q-B3 

(7) 

P-Q4 
PxP B-Q3 
P-Q3 

B-KKt5 
Q-B2 

0-0 
BxP PxP BxP 

(8) 

KtxB KtxKt Kt-B3 
Kt-B3 

B-Kt5 

0-0 

P-Q3 

P-Q3 

Kt-K4 

B-Kt3  — 

Kt.Kt3~ 

R-QBsq  (6)     Q-R4ch  (9) 

P-K5  ?  (10) 

P-Q4     (11) 

B-Kt3 

KFK5 

Kt-KB3 

B-KKt5 

0-0 

Kt-QB3 

B-R4 

P-KKt4 

BxKtch PxB P-Q4 

P-QB4 

P-B3 

B-K2+ 

<1)  If  3  ..,B.K2;     1Q.R5. 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 
16P-Q3,  Q-Kt3; 

l5K.Qsq,0.0; 
7  P.Q4,  Qch; 

Or  4  Q-B3 1 

Schulten v.  Morphy lost in  17  moves by  6  PxEt. 

6  . . ,  KKt.Q2 ;    7  Kt x  P,  B-R4,  &c. 

OrlOPxP-f.    (C.E.  R.)    If  10QxKtP,Kt-Q5. 

12  Kt X  P.,  Q-B4 ;    13  Kt-B7ch,  E x  Kt ;    14  Q x  R,  Q-K5ch ; 
17  Q X  P  (B4)  + .    (Paulsen v.  Kolisch.) 

(7)  If  4  ..,  P.Q4;     5  KtxP,  B-Q3;     6  KtxKtch,  QxKt; 
8K-Bsq-h. 

(8)  9  . . ,  B-Kt5 ;    10  P x  P  (or B-KKtS),  Rch ;    11  K-Bsq,  Kt x  P ;   12  B.KKt5, 
&c. 

(9)  12  Kt^B3,  B-Kt5 ;    13  B-Q2,  R-Ksqch ;    14  K-Bsq,  Kt-B3;    15  Kt-B3  (if) 
BxKKt;    16  PxB:     (if)  15  ..,  QR-Qsq      16  P-QR3-I-. 

(10)  4  P.Q3  equalises by P-Q4 ;    5  PxP,  KtxP;    6  Q-K2ch,  B-K3;    7BxKt, 
QxB;    8  BxP,  B-QB4;    9  Kt-KB3,  P-QB3 ;    10  Kt.B3,  &c.     If  4  Q-K2,  B.B4, 

and castles shortly with an even game. 

(11)  Or  4  ..,  Kt-K5;    5  Kt-KB3,  P.Q4 ;    6  B-Kt?,  Kt.Kt4  ;    7  P.Q4,  Kt.K3. 
The Col.  is Anderssen v.  Morphy. 

THK KING'S GAMBITS.  iffl Table H3.~THE KING'S BISHOP'S GAMBIT. 

If 

10 
11 
12 

1P-K4,P.K4:    2P.KB4,PxPj    3BB4,P-KB4I. 

6                    7                    8                    9  10, 

I Q-K2      (1)  Kt-QB3  P-K5  P-QB PxP Q.R5ch Q-R5ch  (8)  P-Q4     (13)  Q-R5cb Q-R5clj 

,     KQsq  ?  K-Bsq PxPenpas K-Bsq K-Bsq 

^    PxP!  PxP BxP PxP p:B6 

.     QxPch  (2)  KtxP Kt-KB3  PxP P-Q4 

'     B-K2      (3)  Kt-KB3  (9)  Q.B3  B-B4  PxPck BxKt     (4)  Kt-KB3  0-0  Q-BB KxP RxB Q-R3  Kt-B3  BxKt Kt-KBB Kt-KB3  Q-K2     (10)  P-Q4  RxB Q-K2cb Q-R4       (5)  B.K2  P-KKt4  Kt-KR3  K^Qiq R-Ksq P-Q4  R-Ksqch Kt-B3  B-K3 

Kt-B3     "~  P-Q4     (11)  KKt-K2  Kt-Kt54-  -KFBS Kt-B3  KtxKtch Kt-B3  P-B3 

P-Q3  QxKt B-Q2  FQi PQ3       (6)  BxQP Kt-Q5  B-KtB B-B4  P-B3  Q-Kt2  -f B^^Q3 

Q-QB4  B-Kt3  Kt-Q2 

0-0-0     (7)  B-KKt6(12>  R.Ksq+(14) 

(1)  If  4  BxKt,  Q-R5ch. 

(2)  If  6  Et-QB3,  K-Qsql or6..,P-B3;    7  KtxP»  K-Qsq:    or  6  ...  B-KS; 

7  BxKt,  RxB;    8  Kt-Q5,  K-Qsq,  &c. 

(3)  Or  6  ..,  Kt-K2;    7  Kt-QB3,  P-B3;    8  Kt-B3,  Q-Kt5,  Ao. 

(4)  Or  7  P-Q4,  Kt-KBS ;    8  QxBP,  &c. 

(5)  8  ..,  Q-B3;    9  Kt.B3,  P-B3 ;    10  P-Q4,  P-Q4;    11  QxBP:=. 

(6)  If  11  Kt-Q5.  B-B4  ;    12  KtxKBPI,  BxQ  ;    13  KtxQ,  BxKtch;    14  PxB, 
K-Q2,  or  0-0-0.  &c. 

(7)  13   Kt-Q5,  B.B3;    14  KtxKiBP,  Q-Kt5 ,-  15  P-KR3,  Q-Kt6;    16  R-K3, 
KR-Ksq or Kt-K4  =  . 

(8)  If   4   ..,   Kt-KB3;    5   P-K5,   Kt-Kt5;    6   Kt-B3,   P-Q3':    7  P-Q4,  PxP; 
0  P X  P,  Q X  Qch ;    9  Kt x  Q,  Kt-QB3  ;     10  B x  P,  &c. 

(9)  If  6  ..,  P-B3;    7  K:t-KB3,  Q-R4 ;    8  Q-Ksq,  K-Qsq;    9  QKt-Kt6,  P-Q4 ; 
10   Q-K5,    Kt-KB3,   &c.^    (Handlruch.)       If    6    ..,    Kt-K2 ;     7    Q-K2,    QKt-B3 ; 

8  Kt-KB3,  &c. 

(10)  Or  8  Q-Ksq I    (SalvioH.)    The Queen^s move also follows  7  . .,  Q-R4. 

(11)  Or  9  ..,  R.Bsql 

(12)  Continued  13  B-Q2,  K-Qsq  ;    14  P-Q5,  R-Ksq  ;    15  B-B3,  Q-Bsq ;    16  Q-Q2, 
BxKt;.    17  PxB,  B-Q3 ;    18  PxP,  KtxP;    19  BxP.  (Tschigorin v.  Hellwig.) 

(13)  0ir4  ...  Qch;     5  K-Bsq,  P-B6,  &c, 

(li),  13  Kt-Bsq,  B-B5  ;     14  Kt-B3,  Q-Kt5ch,  &c.      White's play is questionable. 
iJdr.  Wajte suggests  11  B-Q3  to defend Pawn',  instead of  11  B-Kt3. 

2DB THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  114.— THE 
1  P-K4.   P.K4; 

K 
2 

ING'S BISB 

[OPS GkUl PxP;     3  ] 

JIT. 

P.KB4.  ; 

B.B4. 

3 

11 

—— 

12 

IS 

14 

15 

P-KKt4 

P-QKt4  (4) 

4 

P.KR4 
P-KBa 

— 

BxKtP P-QB3 

Q-B5ch BxBPch P.Kt5 

(2) 

KxB 

5 

P-Q4 

P-Q4 

B-B4       (5) 

K-Bsq Q-R5ch B-Kt2 

B-R3 

(3) 

P-Q4 

B-Kt2 

(7) 

P.Kt3 

6 

PxP Kt-QB3 

PxP Kt-QB3 

Q-Q5ch PxP P-Q3 

Q-B5ch Kt-QB3  (8) 

K-Kt2 

'7 

RxR Q-Q3 

K-Bsq P-Q4 

QxR BxR Kt-KB3 

P-B6 

Kt-B3 

Kt-QB3 

a Q-R5 

KKt-K2 

P-Q4 

P-Q5 

(9) 

Kt-QB3(11) 

Q-B3 

Kt.B4 

PxKtPch Kt.K4 

Q-R5ch 

9 

P-K5 

P-KKt3 

KxP KtB3 

K-Qsq Q-Kt2 

P-B6 

B-Q3 

KtxKt B.RS 

10 

Kt-KR3 

-h BxB Kt-QB3  (6) 

QxKt P-R4 

(1) 

PxKt Kt-B3 

KtB4 

P-Kt5 

11 

KxP+ 

Q-K2ch P-KKt4 

Kt.Q5 

K.Qsq PxPen pas B-Q3 

Q'B2+ 

K-Kt2 

P-Q4 

12 

B-Q3     ( 

:io) 

KKt-K2    -}. 

(1)  Black may continue  10  . . ,  P-Q4  with a  view to B  x Kt. 

(2)  If  4  . . ,  P-KB3,-  White mates in  5  moves.    If  4  . . ,  P x  P or B-K3 ;  5  Q-R5+ . 
If  4  ..,  P-KR4  ;    5  Kt-KBS,  P-Kt5  ;    6  Kt-Kt5.    See Table  106.  Col.  3. 

(3)  6  ..,    B.K2;    6   QBxP,   BxPch;     7  P-KKt3.  B.K2 :     8  P-B3,  P.KB4  ; 
9  Q-Kt3,  R-R2  ;    10  RxP,  R-Kt2 ;    11  R-R8  +  . 

(4)  Bryan and Kieseritzky.    The Col.  is Mr.  Calthrop'8  variation. 

(5)  Or  5  B-K2.    (Brien.) 

(6)  If  10  Kt-KB3,  B.R6ch-h. 

(7)  5  .:.,   P-KB4;    6  P-K5    B-lit2;    7  Kt.KB3,  Q.R4 ;     8  P-Q4,   P.KKt4 ; 
9  Kt-QB3,  P.Kt5.    (Forsyth v.  Blackburne.) 

(8)  Or  6  ..,  Kt-KB3. 

(9)  Or  8  Kt-B3  first,  and then P-Q5,  or perhaps P-K5. 

(10)  13  P-K5,  BxKP;     14BxPch.  KxB;    15  Q.B5ch,  K-Q3 ;    16  Kt-K4ch KxP  ;    17  R-Qsqch atid wins  ;    if K-B3  by  18  Q-Q7ch,  and if K-BS,  by  18  Q-Bsqch. 

(11)  If  8  P-Q4  similar play follow  .     Jf  8  Kt-RBS.  B-B4 .     9  P-Q4,  Kt.B3 ; 
XO PxB,  Q-K2;    XI  0-0,  QxBPch;    12  K-Rsq,  B.R3  + 

Tab LB  115.— THE    8 
P.K4:    2  P-K ING'S BISI lOP'S GAMl 
;    3  B.B4, 

BIT. 

1  P.K4, 

.B4,  PxP Kt.QBS; 

4 

P-Q4.   (1) 

16 
*•    P.KKt4 

17 

18 

19 

flO Q-R5ch 

5    P.KR4 

K-Bsq B-Kt2 

P-KKt4  (5) 

ft PxP 
^    QxP Kt-QB3 

Kt-KBd B-Kt2     (6) 

Q.R4 

Kt-K2 
QxP 

(2) 

Kt-B3 

P-Q5      (8) 

P.KR4 

(3) 

Q-R4 

QKt-K2  (9) 

B-Kt2 

R-Ktsq 

®    QxP Kt-Q5 

P.K5 

P-Q6 

Kt.QB8(ll) 

K-Qsq KKt-K2     ' 

PxP P-KRS  (12) 

„    QKt-B3 
^    Q-K2 

B-K2! 

Kt-K4 

QxP P-K6 

Q-Kt or R3 

P-KR3 

Kt-QB8 

KKt-K2   " 

^^    BxP KtxKtP Q-Ksq Q-Q5 

K-Ktsq QxKt K-Qsq P-KR3 

Q-Kt3 

.     Kt-Q5 
"    Q-K5 

BxP P-B3 

Kt-K5 

B-Q3 

Q-Kt3 

R-Ksq Kt-KB3 

P.B4 

,„     KtxPch 
12    K-Qsq BxPch P-KR4  — 

QxBPch PxPenpas K-Ksq Kt-B4-QxQ QxP 

13    ^■'^^ 
^^    Q-K2 

w B.KR5 

BxQch K-K2    (10) 

Kt-K4 

QxKP    (7) 

Q-Bsq   (13) 

(1)  Or4Kt-KB31.    H  4  Kt-QB3,  Qch;    5  K-Bsq,  B-B4 ;    6  Q.K2,  Kt.Q5; 
7  Kt-B3 1 

(2)  Or  7  Kt-KB3.    The Col.  is worked out by V.  Nielsen. 

(3)  If  7  ..,  Q.K2;,   8  QKt-B3,  Kt-B3 ;    9  P.K5,  &c. 

(4)  UKtxR,  BxR;    15  BxKt,  KtPxB;    16  Q-Q2,  B-Kt3;    17  0-0-0,  &c. 
(6)  6  ..,P-QKt4;    6  BxKtP,  R-Ktsq;    7  Kt-QB3,  P-KKt4 ;    8  Kt.Q5  I,  &c. 

(6)  If  6  ..^KKt-K2;    7  P-KKt3,  PxP;   8  K.Kt2,  P-Q4  I ;    9  P x KtP,  Q-KtS ; 
10  .B-K2  (Gattie) :    if  7   Kt-Kt5,   K-Qsq ;    8  KB x  P,  B-Kt2 ;    9  Kt-KB3,  Q-R3 ; 

(8) 
>.Kt5; 

(7)   14  Q-Ksq,  Q-K3  (Berger.)    If  15  B-B4,  K-Qsq:    if  15  B.Kt4,  P.B4. 

7  B-K2,   B-Kt2;    8  Kt-K5,   Q-R3;    9  KtxKt,  QPxKt+:    or  7  P-KB4, 
8  Kt-Ktsq,  P-Q3 ;    9  P.B3,  Kt-B3,  &c. 

(9)  Or  7  . .,  Kt-K4  (W.  W.) ;    8  Q-Q4, !,  Kt-Kt3.    (C.'E.  R.) 

(10)  14  Et X  Ktch,  QP X  Kt ;   15  B-Kt3,  Kt x  P,  &c..  Cols.  18.19  are by Zukertort. 
(11) 'White might play  8  Q-Q3.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(12)  8  ..,  KtxP equalises after exchanges. 

(13)  14  PxP,  PxP;    15  RxR,  BxR;    16  Kt  (K4)  xP,  KtxP;     17  P.B3, 
.E3;    18  KtxKt,  PxKt;    19  Q-R4ch  =  .  ' 

210  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Tablb  116.— THE KING'S BISHOP'S GAMBIT. 

10 
11 
12 
IB 

1   P.K4.  P-K4;    2P.KB4,  PxP;    8  B.B4.  Q-R5ch. 

21  22                   23                   24                   25 

.     K-Bsq B-B4  P-Q3  Kt-KB3  (6)  P-KKt4 

.     P-Q4  Q-B3       (4)  Kt-KB3  Kt-KBB  (a) 

'     B-Kt3  P-KKt4  (5)  Q-R4  Q-R4   . 

Kt-KBB P-KKt3  Q-Ksg !  P-Q4               P-KR4 

QTRTI Q-Kt5  P-Q3       (7)  B-Kt2   (10)    P-KR3  (14) 

P.K5  (1)     PQ3  P-K5  Kt-B3   (11)    Kt-B3 

Kt-K2  (2)     B.R3  PxP P-Q3               Kt-K2 

QBxP QxQ KtxP P-K5              BxPch 

^    OO  '    BxQ B-K3  PxP QxB Kt.B3  P-KR4  KtxP P-KR4            Kt-K5 

^    FOB KtPxP QxKt B-K3     (12)    Q-B3 

PxP RxP-f BxB BxB Q.R5ch+ 

PxP Q-K2  PxB BxQP P-Q4       (8)  KtxKtP Kt.B4  QxQch B-B4  KtxQ Kt-B3  K-K2 

Kt-K2  PxP KKtxP<3)  BxP    (18) 

(1)  If  7  QBxP,  P.Q3;    8  Kt-B3,  B-Kt5.   If  7  Kt-B3,  P-Q3 ;    8  Kt-Q5,  B-K3. 

(2)  7  ..,  P-Q3  is playable,  but.7  ..,  P-KB3  is inferior.    (Schwede.) 

(3)  14  QKtxKt,  KtxKt;    15  KtxKt,  Q-QB4  =  .     (Schwede.y- 

(4)  Or  5  Kt-QB3 !.    Or  5  Kt-KB3,  Q-K4 ;    6  P-KR4  or P-Q4.      ? 

(5)  5  ..,  Kt-QB3;  6  P-KKt3,  Q-B3  ;  7  QxP,  Kt-Q5 ;  8  B-Kt3,  B-K3  ; 
9  Kt-QB3,  P-KR4;  10  P-Q3,  P-B5;  11  QxQ,  KtxQ;  12  K-Kt2,  BxB+. 
(Mortimer v.  Bird.) 

(6)  For  4  Kt-QB3  see Cols.  17-20.  If  4  ...  Q-B3 ;  5  Kt-QB3,  P-B3 ;  6  P-Q4, 
P,Q3;    7  Kt-B3,  P-KKt4 ;    8  P-ZR4,  P-KR3;    9  P-K5-f.    ^ 

(7)  If  6  ..,  Kt-QB3;    7  P-K5,  Kt-Ktsq;    8  Kt-B3,  P-K:Kt4  ;    9  Kt-Q5+. 

(8)  Or  11  P-QKt3  or B-B8+.    If  11  ..,  P-KKt4 ;    12  P-Q;K:t3. 

(9)  5  P-KKt3,  PxP;  6  Q-B3,  Pch;  7  KxP,  Kt-KR3 ;  8  P-Q4,  Kt-B3 ; 
9  P-B3,  B-K2  and holds the Pawn. 

(10)  If  6  ..,  P-Q3;    7  P-E:R4,  B-R3 ;    8  Kt-B3,  B-Kt5  =  . 

(11)  Another variation is  7  P-B3,  P-KRS  ;    8  Q-Kt3.  ,  (B.  C.  M.,  1889,  p.  171.> 

(12)  9  . .,  B-Kt5  or Kt-K2  may be played here.  If  9  . :,  P-KR3  ;  10  Kt x  KP+. 
For  10  Kt-Q5  see Col.  26.    If so played on move  9  Black's reply is P-K5. 

(13)  If  14!K,t-R3,  QKt-B3  and White cannot win the Pawn. 

(14)  Or  6  ...  B-Kt2.    See Table  118,  note  2. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS.  211- 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 

P- 
P Table K4,   P- 
4   K 

26 
-Q4 

117.— 

.K4; 
•B sq, 

27 

THE 

2  P P.K KING'S 

.KB4,   P 
:  Kt  4  ;     5 

28 

X P  ;     3  B-B4,   Q.RSch; 
Kt.QB3,   B-Kt2. 

29                   30 
P.KKt3 

P-Q3  Kt-K2  PxP Kt-B3      (1)     P-KKt3  Kt-B3  Q-B3 

Q^R4  PxP Q-R4  P-Kt7cli Kt-KB3  (8) 

P-KR4  K-Kt2  P-KR4  KxP PxP P-KR3  P-Kt5  !  P-KR3  Kt-KR3           Q-Kt5 

P-K5  PxP K-Ktsq Kt-Q5              P-Q4 

PxP       (2)     Q-B3  Q-Kt3  (5)    K-Qsq     (6)    QxQch K^Q5 QxP P-K5  P-Q4  KtxQ K-Qsq P-Q4       (4)     P-Q3  BxP      (7)    P-KR3 

K-Ktsq P-K5  Kt-QKt5  Q-Kt3              KtK5  + 

Q-Kt3  BxQ Kt-R3  QxQ              """^ 

KtxKP PxQ P-R5  PxQ Q-B4  BxP Q-B4  Kt-Kt5 

Q-R5  KtxP PxP Kt-KB3 

BxKt KtxKt P-QB3  P-QB3 

PxB BxKt Q-K2  Kt-Kt4 

P-QB3  P-B3  Q-B3  P-QR4  ? 

BQ2  B-B3  PxKt+  Kt-Q3 

PxKt B-B4  B-B3 

KBxP P-B3    —  P-K5 

QKt-B3  (3)     Kt-Q2  — 

(1)  Or  7  B-K2  (Jaenisch)  see Praxis,  p.  367,  or Chess Player's Chronicle,  1862. 

(2)  If  9  ..,  Q-Kt3;    10  Q-K2  +  .     Auderssen recommended  9  P-KB3. 

(3)  17  PxP,  B-K3:  18  BxB,  PxB;  19  R-KBsq,  QxBP:  20  BxP. 
Q-B4ch;    21K-R2,  KtxP;    22  P-Kt6,  Kt-KB3.    {A.  S.) 

(4)  If  10  ..,  QxP;     11  Kt-B3  +  . 

(5)  9  ..,  P-Kt5,  10  Kt-R2,  P-B6  (a) :  11  PxP,  PxP;  12  KtxP,  P-Q3: 
13  B-K2,  B-Kt5  ;     14  K-B2,  P-KB4,  &c.     (Suhle and Neumanr^.) 

(a)   If  10  ...QxP,  11  P-K5,  Kt-Kt3;     12  KtxP,  Q-Qsq ;     13  B-Q3-|.. 

(G)    If  9. .,0-0,     10  P-Q3  !.  Kt-B3  ;     11  Q:Kt3,  Q xQch  ;     12PxQ  +  . 

(7)  If  10  ..,  P.QB3;  11  Kt-B3,  and if BxP or P-Q3  or P-Q4  ;  12  Q.Kt3  +  : 
if  11  ..,  Q-Kt5ch;  12  QxQ,  KtxQ;  13  P-KE3.  Kt-KR3  ;  14  BxPch,  P-BS ; 
15  B-R4-f-. 

(8)  If  7  ..Q.B5;  8  Kt-Q5+  If  7..,  PxP;  8  Q x  Pch,  K-Qsq  ;  9  r-Q4  +  . 
If  7  ..,  P.Q4,  8  PxKtP,  Q-Kt5;  9  KtxP.  Q x  Qch ;  10  KtxQ,  P.Kt5 ; 
11  Kt.Kt5,  P.KR3;     12  KtxKBP  +  .    Cols.  29  and  30  are due to Mr Fraser. 

212  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table IIS.—THE KING'S BISHOP'S GAMBIT. 

1P-K4,P.K4;  2P.KB4,  PxP;  3B-B4,P-Q4; 
iBxP(l),Q-R5ch;  5K.Bsq,P.KKt4;  6  Kt-QB3(2), 
B.Kt2;     7    P'Q4.    Kt.K2;    8Kt-B3,   Q.R4;    9P.KR4, 

P-KR3. 
81  82  33  34  35 

KKtsq P-K5       (7)  Q-Q3     (12) 

P-Kt5      (3)  0-0         (8)  P-QB3 

KtK5  KtKsq K-Ktsq B-K4     (10)    B-Kt3 

BxKt P-B6       (6)     P-Kt5  P-QB4  B-Kt5 

PxB PxP!  KtKsq Kt-K2  Kt-K2 

Kt-Kt3  PxP R-Qsq QKt-B3  Kt-Q2    (13) 

Kt-K2  KB2  Kt-Q3      (9)    K-Ktsq P-B4-f P-B6  QKt-Ii3  KTxB KtxQP Kt-B4  P-K5  KtxKt PxP     (11) 

10 
11 
12 

14 
15 
16 

QxKP B-B4!  RxKt KtxKKtch KtxKt KBxP(B6)  KtxP BxKt PxKt Q^Kt3  QxKP QxP BK3  KR-Ktsq KtxR QBxP— 

(4)  Q.R2       (6)  QxKt+  ~ 

(1)  If  4  PxP?,  Q-R0ch;    6  K-Bsq,  B-Q3  foUowed by Kt-K2. 

(2)  Or  6  Kt-KB3,  Q-R4  ;  7  P-KR4,  B-Kt2 ;  8  Kt-B3,  P-KR3 ;  9  P.Q4, 
Kt-K2,  &c.  Gossip gives  8  K-B2  ! ,  but his analysis his incomplete ;  the Handbuch differs. 

(3)  If  10  ..,  Q-Kt3  (Rosenthal) ;    11  B-B4  to follow with B-Q3  or'K2. 

(4)  16...Kt-B3;  17  Q-Q2,  R-Bsq ;  18  R-KBsq,  B-K3  1  + .  (Salvioli.)  Ifl6..» 
P.B3;    17  B.Q4,  Q-Kt6;     18  Q-Q2,  QxPch  =  . 

(5)  11  ..,  QKt-B3  ;  12  Kt-Kt5,  0-0  I  ;  13  P.B3  {Handbuch) :  11  13  KtxBP, 
P.B6  (C M.) ;     14  B-K3,  R-Ktsq,  &c. 

(6)  17  B-K3,  0-0-0;  18BxKt,  KtxB;  19  Q-B3,  KR-Ktsq;  20  Kt.K2  or QR-Qsq.     {B.  C.  M,  1891,  p.  646.) 

(7)  Mortimer v.  Steinitz.  Steinitz,  who gives the continuation,  notes that the advance of this Pawn should be delayed as long as possible. 

(8)  If  10  ..,  QKt-B3;  11  BxKtch.  Kt takes B;  (if)  12  Kt-QS,  0-0; 
13  Kt X  QBP,  R-Ktsq  (Ha/ndbuchJ :    Salvioli gives  13  . . ,  R-Qsq. 

(9)  13B-K4,  BxP;    14  Kt-K2,  B x  Pch ;    15  K-Bsq.    (Blake.) 

(10)  Berger's variation.  If  11  B-Q2  or B-QB4,  R-Qsq.  If  11  Q-Ksq,  QKt-B3 ; 
12  B x  Kt,  Kt X  B ;    13  Kt-K2,  B^Kt5. 

(11)  Mr.  Wayte proposes here  14  Kt  (B3)  X Kt,  PxKt;  15  PxP,  QxP; 
16  QBxP,  &c. 

(12)  Wisker v.  Rosenthal :  recommended by Mr.  Potter.  If  10  Kt.K5  (Wisker), 
QxQch;  llKtxQ,  BxKt;  12  PxB,  R-Ktsq;  13  PxP,  PxP;  14  Kt-B3, 
P.QB3  and Kt-Kt3-|-. 

(13)  If  12  ...  Kt-B3 ;   13  P-B3,  &c.    Black's aim is to castle on Queen's side. 

THE KING'S GAMBITS.  213^ 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

14 

Tabls  119.— the KING'S BISHOP'S GAMBIT. 

¥ 

1P-K4,P.K4;    2P.KB4,PxP;    3B-B4,P-Q4; 

4  Bx P. 
86                   87  SB  89  40 

Q-R5ch Kt-KB3 

K-B^q Q-K2       (6) 

P-KKt4  B-Q3  Kt-KB3?  KtxB Kt-QB3  PQ4  Kt-KB3  Kt-KB3  (4)  PxKtdisch K't-K2?  (1)  Kt-K2  Q-R4  Q.R4  B-K2 

Kt~B3  Kt-QB3  QK2  Kt-B3  Q-B3 

Q.R4  P-KB3  P-KB3  P-QB8  B-R5ch P-KR4  Q-K2  Pj^4 B-Kt3      (5)  P-KKt3 

P-KR3    (2)  P-B3  Kt^K2  B-KKt5  PxP BxPch B-Kt3  Kt-B3  P.Q4  PxP QxB B-KKt5  P-B3  P-KKt4  B-Kt4 

Kt-K5  Q-B2  B-Kt3  P-Kg+  Kt-B3  — 

Q-B3  QxQch B-KKt5  ^~  — 

QR5ch KxQ P-KR3 

K-Qsq QKt-Q2  Kt-Kt3 

Kt-BTch Kt-B3  —        K-Ktsq K-Q2  0-0-0—        BxKt KtxR QxB 

^^     QxKKt QxQ PxP    +  PxQ 

(8) 

(1)  Or  6  ..,  Kt-QB3!    {Handbuch).     For  6  ..,B-Kt21  see p.  212. 

(2)  If  5  ...  P-QB3;    6  B-Kt3,  P-Kt5;    7  Kt-KKt5-f. 

(3)  14  ...  K.t-R5;     15  K-B2,  P.KKt4;     16B-Q2,  KtQ2;     17  QR-Qsq,  0-0-0  =» 

(4)  To stop  6  ...  Kt-Kt5. 

(5)  Lipschutz V,  Pope.     Mr.  Ranken prefers  8  B-B4. 

(6)  5  Kt.QB3,  B-QKt5;    6  KKt-K2.  BvKt;    7  KtPxB'  (if  7   KtyB,  B-KWJ), 
KtxB;    8  PxKt.  QxP+  (J.  RusselJ). 

214  THE KING'S GAMBITS. 

Table  120.— T HE KING'S P.K4,  P.K BISHOP 

'S GAMBIT 
.KB4,   Px P. 

IMITED). 

1    J 

4;     2  P 

41 

42 

43 

44 

46 

3     B-K2       (1) 

B-Q3 

(7) 

"*     Q-R5ch P-KB4 

(4) 

Q-R5ch K-Bsq Q-B3       (2) 

PxP P-K5 

K-Bsq Kt-KB3 

P-Q3 

B-B4 

^     P-B3 

B-R5ch PxP 

(6) 

Q-K2 

Q-B3 

P.KKt3 

Q-R5ch BxKt 

(B) 

BxKt 

^     P-Q3 

PxP K-Bsq KxB KxB Q-K2ch BxP Kt-QB3 

Q-K8ch Kt-B3 
^     P.KKt4 

K-Bsq P-Q4 

P-B3 

Q-Bsq 

"(5) 

Kt-K2 

Kt-K4 

QxQ 

^     P.KR4 

^    P-KR3      "" 

Kt.KB3 

B-B2 

BxQ Q-B3 

P-Q3 

P-Q34- 

^     Q-Kt2       "" 

P-B4 

P-Q4 

P-B3 

B-Kt5 

,n PxKtP 
^^     PxP P-B5 

Q-B2 
QxQ 

— 

B-B2 

RxR 
^^     QxR Kt-B3 
B-K3+ 

KxQ Kt-Kt3 

Kt:K4 

P-KR4 

'"                  (3) 

P-KR4 

+ 

(1)  This move discounts both Q-R5ch,  and P.KKt4.    See p.  209,  cols.  17-19. 

(2)  If  4  ...  P-Q3;  5  Kt-QB3,  B-K3;  6  P.Q4,  Q-B3;  7  Kt-B3,  P-KKt4 
8  T-KR4,  P-KR3 ;  9  P-K5  +  .  Or  4  ..,  Q-K2 ;  5  Kt-QB3,  Kt-KB3  (P-QB3 1) 
6  P.Q3,  P-KKt4;  7  P-KR4  !  (7  Kt-B3,  P-KR3;  8  P-KR4?,  Kt.KR4  +  ),  B-R3 
8  PxP,  BxP;  9  Kt-B3,  R-Ktsq ;  10  KtxB,  RxKt;  11  BxP,  R-Kt3 
12  P-K5-f-.     (Cunningham v.  Charlton.) 

(3)  If  12  ..,  PxP;  13  PxP,  B.K2;  14  Kt-Q6ch,  BxKt;  15  QxB,  Q-Kt2; 
16  B-Q2,  Kt-Q2;  17  B-B3  +  .  If  12  ..,  P-K15;  13  Kt-Ktsq,  P-B6;  14  PxBP, 
PxKP;  16  PxKP,  QxP;  16  B-Q3,  PxP;  17  KtxP,  B-R6ch ;  18  K-B2, 
Bch ;  19  Kt X  B,  Q X  Ktch,  &c.  White has a  little better development in exchange for his pawn. 

(4)  If  3  ..,  P-Q4;  4  PxP,  QxP;  5  B-B3:  or  4  ..,  Q-R5cb;  5  K-Bsq, 
B-Q3,  &o. 

(5)  Given by Mr.  Pollock to White's advantage,     {B.  C.  M.,  1888,  p.  872.) 

(6)  Bird v.  Weiss played  5  iEt-KB3,  PxP;  6  KtxP,  Qch,  &c. :  the Handbuch prefers  5  P-Q4,  but continues to Black's advantage.  The Col.  is Bird V.  Zukertort. 

(7)  Mr.  Forsyth's variation.  If  3  ..,  B-B4 ;  4  Kt-KB3.  P-Q3  or r-KKt4: 
White may now play  5  P-QKt4,  &c.  If  3  ,.,  Kt-QB3  ;  4  P-B3.  If  3  ..,  B-K2; 
4  Kt.KB3,^  Bch  ;    5  K-Bsq,  P-Q3 ;    6  P-B3. 

(8)  9  ..,  Kt-QB3;    6  Kt.KB3,  Q-B4 ;    7  P-B3,  P.Q3.  &c. 

SECTION VIII. 

THE KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED- 

1  P.K4,    P.K4;    2P.KB4, 

fp- 

Q4 

p. 

Q3 

Kt 

-KB3 

Ib. 

34,  &C 

1?ARLY writers recommended Chess-players to take the Gambit Pawn J  and try to keep it.  Modem players frequently act on the principle that  -it is good policy to evade an .  opening for which '  your antagonist shows a  predilection.  The usual course in declining the King's Gambit is to play  2  ...,  P-Q4  or  2  ...,  B-B4.  The former leads to an an open game somewhat in White's favour.  But Black may play Falkbeer's Counter Gambit  2  ...,  P-Q4  ;  3  PxP.  P-K5,  and so turn the tables on his opponent.  '(Cols.  3-5.)  This can be avoided by  3  Kt-Kl53  (Col.  6.) 
The defence  2  ...,  B-B4  (Cols.  10-15)  leads to a  game unlike any other variation of the opening.  It most resembles the King's Knight's Opening, 
and from this point of vie^  is rather in Black's favour,  for White cannot castle without losing time in exchanging or otherwise disposing of Black's King's Bishop.  He may sacrifice a  Pawn for this purpose,  by Mr.  Thorold's variation  (Col.  14,  Note  10),  but the attack is insufficient compensation. 

Nevertheless,  although thus put under restraint,  the first player is able,  in time,  to acquire a  good game by correct play.  He may,  however, 
easily draft into a  difficult and dangerous position.  The other variations 
2  ...,  P-Q3  and  2  ...,  Kt-KB3  are not so advantageous for the defending player. 

It is obvious that a  fair knowledge of the Gambit declined is essential to every lover of the King's Gambit. 

-216  CHESS OPENINGS. 

Tablb  121.-THE KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

10 

1   P.K4.  P.K4;    2  P>KB4,  P-Q4(l). 

12  3  4  5 

PxQP QxP PxP P-K5 

Kt-QB3  B-Kt5cb  (5)  B-Kt5cK Kt-QB3  P>(J3I    (10) 

Q-K3       (2)  B-Q2  P-B3  ,Kt-KB3  QxP    (llj Kt-B3     (3)  Q-K2ch PxP Q-K2  Kt-QB3  ^ 

P.K5       (4)  Q-K2  KtxP!  (6)    B-Q3 !  B.QKt5 

Kt-K5  Kt-QB3  BxKtch P-Q3       (9)    B-Q2     (1^) 

Kt-KB3  Kt-KB3  PxB"^        '    0-0  BxKt B-B4  BxBch P-Q4       (7)    PxP BxB Q-K2  QKtxB B-R3  KtxP P-KB3 

B-Kt3  P-Q4    -~  Kt-QB3  KtxKt Q-K2+ 

P-KB3  0-0-0—  B-Kt5 

Kt-B4  KKt-K2 

B-K3  Kt-B3 

Q-K2—  0-0 

=  0-0         (8) 

(1)  If  2  ...  Q-R5ch;  3  P-KKtS,  Q-K2;  4PxP,  QxP;  5  B-Kt2.  P.Qi 
6  P-Q4,  Q-K3;    7  p.K5+. 

(2)  I prefer  4  ..,  Q-QR4.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(3)  5  PxP.  QxPch;     6  B-K2,  B-Q3;     7  Kt.B3,   Q-K2;     8  P-Q4,  B-K3 

9  0-0+. 

(4)  6  ..,  PxPdch;  6  K-B2,  (thr.  Bch,  and R-Ksq),  B-K2  (a);  7  P-Q4 
Kt-KB3;  8  Bch,  P-B3 ;  9  R^Ksq,  Q-Q3;  10  B-QB4  or Q3,  0-0,  &c.  (a)  6  .., 
B.Q2;  7  P-Q4,  B-Q3;  8  B.Q3,  Kt.K2;  9  JCt.K4,  P-EBB;  10  R-Ksq,  Q-BS 
11  KtxBch;  PxKt;    12  QBxP,  &c. 

(5)  4  Kt-KB3  transposes into the King's Gambit,  Col.  6,  or into Note  3  above. 

(6)  6  ..,  PxP;  6  B-R4?  (B-B4!)  Q-Q5 ;  7  P-B3,  Q-Q3;  8  Kt-K2,  B-Kt5 
•9  0-0,  Q-Q6;  10  R-Ksq,  Bch;  11  K-Bsq?:  mate in two moves.  If  11  K-Rsq B-B6;  12  P-KR3,  Kt-B3  r  13  B-B2,  BxPch;  14  JCxB,  Q-B6ch;  16  K-R2i P-KR4  and wins. 

(7)  7  Q-K2,  Kt-B3;  8  Kt.QB3,  B-KB4;  9  Kt-B3,  B-K2;  10  Kt-KR4,  B.KKt5 
11  Q-K3,  0-0,  &c.    White may jiiay P-Q4  before BxKtch. 

(8)  11  P-QR3,  B X  QKt ;  12  P x  B,  P.B4  = :  or  11  R-Ksq,  Kt-Q4  ;  12  P-QR3, 
QBxKt;  13  QxB,  KtxKt;  14  Q-E4I Kt-Kt4;  15  QxB,  KtxQPI  {B.  C M. 
1891,  p.  507). 

(9)  If  6  KtxP,  0-0;  7  KtxKtch,  QxKt;  ,8  P-Q3.  B.Q2;  9  Q-B^. 
B-QKt5ch,  &c,    P-Q3  may also be played on the fifth move. 

(10)  If  4  B-B4,  Kt-KB3;    5  P-Q3,  B-KKt5;    6  .Kt-K2,  &c. 
(U Or  4  ..,  Kt.KB3l 

(12)  If  6  Q-Q2,  Q-K3 ;    7  P x  P,  B x  Kt ;    8  Q x  B,  Q x  Pch ;    9  K-B2,  Kt.KB3 ; 

10  B.Q3,  (B-Kt5ch.  P-B3;    11  Kt-B3.  0-0;    12  B-Ksq,  ?xB!),Q-B3;    11  QxQ, 

Table  122.--THE KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

1  P.K4,  P.K4;    2  P.KB4. 
6  7  8  9  10 

8 

9 

10 

11 

P-Q4  P-Q3  Kt-KB3      '  B.B4 

Kt-KB3  (1)    Kt-KB3  PxP      (4)  Kt-KB3  (8) 

PxKP B-Kt5  KtxP Kt.QB3  (9) 

KtxP B-B4  Kt-KB3 KtxP  (10) 

B-K3       (2)    Kt-QB3  P-Q4  Kt-Kt4  KtxKt P.Q4       (3)    P-B3  P-Q3  P-B3  P-Q4 

PxPenpas BxKt Kt-B4  P-Q4  BxP BxP  —       QxB P-Q4  PxPe.p.(7)  QxB B-QB4—        Kt-B3  Kt-K5     (5)  BxP Q-R5ch P.Q3  P-B4  P-Q4  Q>B2 

Kt-QR4  P-QB3    (6)  Q-K2ch QxQch' 

B-Kt5ch Q-Kt3  K-B2  KxQ P:B3  P-QKt3  KtK6ch Kt-KtSch B-R4  QKt-B3  K-Ktsq K-B3-f P.QKt4  B-K3  O^O B-B2    B-K3    -f B.Q3 

B-K2  FlKBi P-Q4    +  P-B4 

P-B4! 

(1)  This evades the Falkbeer Counter Gambit.    (Cols.  3-5.) 

(2)  If  4  ...  B-QB4;  6  Q-R5.  If  4  ..,  Kt-QB3 ;  5  B-KtS,  Kt-B3;  6  P.Q4. 
PxPenpas;  7  KtxKt,  PxKt;  8  BxPch,  B-Q2;  9BxR,  QxB;  10  QxP, 
QxP;  11  Q-K2ch,  QxQch;  12KxQ,  B-QB4;  13  B-K3I,  B-Kt4ch;  14  P.B4» 
BxPch;     15  K.Q2,  Kt-K5ch ;     16  K-B2,  (if)   BxB;     17  R-Ksq,  &c. 

Antlerssen v.  Schallopp runs  :— 4  . . ,  B-Q3 ;  5  B-B4,  B x  Kt ;  6  P x  B,  Q.Q5  ?  ; 
7  Q-K2,  Q X  KP  ;  8  P-Q4,  Q x  QP  ;  9  Kt-B3,  Kt-KB3  I ;  10  B.K3,  Q-Qsq  ; 
11  0-0,  P-KR3;    12B-B5,  QKt-Q2 ;    13  QxPch and wins. 

(3)  If  5  Kt-QB3,  P-KB4;  6  Qch,  P-KKt3;  7  KtxP,  B.B2;  8  QxBP, 
BxKt;    9  Q-K5ch,  Q-K2;    10  QxR,  Kt-KB3-K. 

(4)  If  3  Kt.QB3,  P-Q4.    See Vienna Opening,  p.  225. 

(6)  6  ..,  Kt-K3;    7  B-Q3,  B-K2;    8  0-0,  P-QB4;    9  P-B3,  &o. 

(6)  Or  7  ...  B-QKt5ch.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(7)  Or  5  or  6  P-Q4I This Col.  is Steinitz v.  Barbour.    Black won. 

(8)  If  3  PxP,  Qch.    If  3  Q-B3,  Kt-QB3;    4  PxP,  Kt.Q5.    (0.  E.  B.) 

(9)  If  3  ...  P-Q4;    4  KtxP. 

(10)  4  P-QKt4,  leads to an inferior variation of the Evans Gaisbit^  The ffanddwc/t gives  4  PxP,  KtxP;    5  KtxKt,  Q-R5ch,  &c. 

218  CHESS OPENINGS. 

Table  123.— THE KING'S GAMBIT DECLINED. 

1   P.K4.  P.K4;    2  P.KB4,  B-B4?. 

li  12                  18  14  15 

Kt-KB3 
P-Q3 

B-B4  P-B8     (10) 

Kt-KB3  (1)  Kt-QB8  Kt-KBB B-KKt5 

P-B3       (2)  P-Q8  P-B3       (7)  P-Q4     (11)    B-B4     (18) 

Q-K2!    (3)  0-0  Kt-B3  PxQP Kt-QB3 

Q-K2  Kt-B3     (4)  P-Q4  PxP P-Kt4?(14) 

P-B3  P^QR3    (5)  PxQP B-Kt3    (12)    B-Kta P-Q3  P-B5  PxP B-Q3--           P-QR4 

P.QKt4  P-QKt4  B-Kt3     (8)  0-0  —           P-QR8      " 

B-Kt3  B-Kt3—  0-0—  P-QB KKt-Q2  B-Kta— (6)  0-0—     (9)  KFB3 

P-B5    —  P-R3 

B-Kt2-^  BxKt  (16) 

(1)  If  4  ..,  B.KKt5;    5  PxP,  PxP;    6  BxPch,  &c.  +  . 

(2)  If  5  PxP,  PxP;  6  KtxP»  Q-Q5,  &o.  For  5  .Kt-B3,  Kt-BS;  6  P.Q3. 
see Vienna Opening.    Col.  1. 

(3)  If  5  ..,  Kt-B3;    6  PxP.    The Col.  is from A.  S. 

(4)  if  6  P-B5,  P-Q4 ;  7  PxP,  P-K5+.  If  6  Q.K2,  P-Q4;'  7  B.Kt3,  PxBP; 
(if)  8  P-K5,  B-KKt5  1     (Pqtter) :    if  7  P x  QP,  P x  P  ! 

(5)  6  ..,  B-KKt5;  7  Kt-QR4?  (F-KR3  ! ),  Kt-B3 ;  8  KtxB,  PxKt;  9  P-BS, 
PxP:  10  BxP,  Kt.KIl4;  (if)  11  Q.Q2,  BxKt;  12  PxB,  Qch  +  :  or  11  B-K3, 
Kt-K4,  &c. 

(€)  White may foUow with B-Kt5,  ot Q-K2  and B.K3,  .or P-KR3  and P-Kt4,  but 
'•  Black's game is all right."     (Potter.) 

(7)  5  Kt-Kt5,  Kt-R3;  6  Q-R5,  0-0;  7  P-B5,  P-Q4;  8  BxP,  BxP; 
9  KtxBP,  KtxKt;  10  QxB,  Kt-Q5;  11  QxKP,  KtxPch;  12  K-Qsq,  B-Q5-I-.. 
(Handbuch.) 

(8)  If  7  ..,  B-Kt5ch;  8  B-Q2,  KtxKP;  9  BxB.KtxBi  10  BxPchwKxBx 
11  Q-KtSch,  B-i5:3;    12  QxKt,  B-Q4  =  .    (C.^.  it) 

(9)  If  9  Kt-B3,  B-Kt5  ;    10  B-K3,  R-Ksq ;    11  Q-Q3,  Kt-Kt5  f 

(10)  Or. 4  P-Q4,  PxP;  5  B-Q3.  (Thorold):  if  6  KtxP,  Kt-KBS-f..  Or 
4  P.QKtl may be tried.    (G.  E.  R.) 

(11)  If S'PxP.PxP;    6KtxP,Q.K2;    7  P-Q4,  B.Q3+.    (Potter.) 

(12)  Or  6  ..,  Bch;    7  Kt-B3.  0-0;    8  P-K51    (Potter.)     • 

(13)  If  5  P-Q4,  BxKt and B-Kt3.-  If  5  B.K2,  Kt.QB3+* 

(14)  Or  6  P-Q3  and  7  Q-K2.    (Lipsohutz.) 

(15), 10  QxB,  PxP;   11  BxP,  Kt-K4;    12BxKt,PxB;   13  KW52,0-0-h. 

BOOK IV. 

MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS, 
INCLUDING THE QUEEN'S KNIGHT'S GAME. 

THE group of openings presented in Book IV.  includes some of the most popular,  debuts in modern practice.  Among these the Vienna, 
or Queen's Knight's Game,  takes the first place.  After  1  P-K4,  P-K4 ; 
2  Kt-QB3  the first player may adopt safely sundry developments treated in our previdus pages as of questionable soundness  ;  or he may allow his opponent to coijimence the attack and play a  defensive game with a  move in hand  ;  or he may transpose into the Giuoco Piano,  or King's Bishop's Opening.  A prominent continuation is the Steinitz Gambit  (Sec.  II.) 
2...,Kt-QB3;  3  P-B4,  PxP;  4  P-Q4,  Q-R5ch,  &c.  It is an example of one of the most advanced ideas of the time,  viz.  :-^that the King is a 
strong piece,  and,  as such,  may risk attack in the middle of the board in order to guard the centre Pawns or secure a  favourable position for the end-ganie.  The chances,  are,  however,  rather in Black's favour  (1)  by the loss of time in moving White's King,  (2)  by the swifter character of the counter attack,  (3)  by the facility of exchanging pieces,  and so draw- 
ing the game,  (4)  by the possibility of winning by a  counter Gambit. 
The opening may also be turned into a  variation of the King's Gambit, 
given in Table No.  82. 

The Centre Gambit  (Sec.  III.)  is an old and simple form of the game. 
White risks nothing,  nor need he play for any special attack.  His object is to ensure a  good development,  and a  clear board for the mid-game.  He may,  however,  transpose into the Scotch Gambit or offer the Danish Gambit.  The former we have already treated.  The latter  (Sec.  XV.)  is an adaptiition of the Cunningham or Three Pawns'  Gambit to the Queen's side of the board.  The sacrifice of the Pawns in this variation leads to a  strong diagonal attack on Black's King not unlike that obtain- 
able by the first player in the Evans Gambit. 

220  CHESS OPENINGS. 

J The From Gambit  (Sec,  V.)  1  P.KB4.  P.K4;  2  PxP,  P-Q3,  &c.. 
offers a  Pawn for a  strong counter attack.  In our columns we assume the Pawn to be taken,  but White may play  2  P-K4  transposing into the King's Gambit,  or  2  P-Q8  as given by the Handbuch.  Also after  2  P x  P, 
P-Q3,  instead of capturing the second Pawn he may play  3  Kt-KB3,  and transpose into a  variation of the King's Gambit Declined by the continu- 
ation 8  ...,  PxP  ;  4  P-K4,  B-QB4  ;  6  B-B4,  Kt-QB3,  &c. 

Another variation of the same idea,  but brought about by the first player,  is the Blackmar Gambit,  1  P-Q4,  P-Q4  ;  2  P-K4,  PxP; 
3  P-KB3,  &c.  (Sec.  VI.)  The object,  as in From's Gambit,  is to gain time and freedom of movement for a  forward game with the minor pieces. 

The Centre Counter Gambit  (Sec.  VII.)  1  P-K4,  P-Q4  is played to prevent an elaborate attack on the King's side.  Black gives up a  move in-  addition to his first.  It is,  by transposition,  an inferior form of the French Defence.  Nevertheless Mr.  Potter considers it a  playable opening between strong players.  This,  he says,  is a  "fighting defence,  and one far removed from drawish tendencies." 

The Queen's Gambit  (Sec.  VIII.)  1  P.Q4,  P-Q4  ;  2  P-QB4,  PxP dates from the earliest writers.  Stamma,  a native of Aleppo and a 
contemporary of Philidor,  brought it for a  time into high favour.  There is no risk in it,  and the development is not rapid,  although quick enough to yield White a  fair game with an open centre.  *•  Should you,"  writes Walker,  *'  erroneously cling to the acquired.  Pawn and think to keep the spoil,  you will find this opening has paths to destruction as brilliant as the Muzio itself."  The best course is to decline the Gambit,  which leads us to another group of openings  'dealt with in Book V.  under the heading of The Close Game. 

In this group the Queen's Gambit Declined  (1  P-Q4,  P-Q4 ;  2  P-QB4. 
P-K3,  &c.)  is treated in Book V.  as a  variation of the Queen's Pawn game.  It is in fact the main line of play,  the accepted form of tbd Gambit beicg very rarely adopted by modern players. 

"^  &M^ 

CHESS OPENINGS. 

221- 

SUMMARY OP THE SECTIONS INTO WHICH BOOK IV. 
IS DIVIDED. 

SEonoN I,    The Vienna Opening. 

1  P-K4,  P.K4 ;    2  Kt.QB3,  &0. 

The Fyfe OamHu 

1  P-K4,,P-K4;    2  Kt-QB3,  Kt-QB3 ;    8  P-Q4,  &o. 

The Pierce Gambit, 

1  P.K4,  P-K4  ;     2  Kt-QB3,  Kt-QB3  ;     8  P-KB4, 
PvP;    4  Kt-KB3,  P-KKt4 :    5  P-Q4,   &c. 

The Hajnppe-Allgaier GamUt, 

1  P-K4,   P-K4  ;     2  Kt-QB3,   Kt.QB3  ;    3  P.KB4, 
PxP;    4  P-KR4,   P-Kt5;    6  Kt-Kt6,  &c. 

EL Xhe Steinitz Gambit 

1  P-K4,   P-K4;.     2   Kt-QBS,   Kt.QB8 ;     8  P-B4. 
PxP;    4  P-Q4,  &o. 

HI,     The Centre Gambit, 

1   P-K4,  P.K4 ;    2  P.Q4,  &a. 

TV,    The Danish Gambit, 

1  P-K4,  P-K4  ;    2  P-Q4,  PxP  ;    d P-QB8,  PxP; 
4  B.QB4,  &c. 

V.     The From Gambit, 

1  P.KB4,  P.K4;  2PxP,  P.Q3;  8  PxP,  BxP,4o. 
VI.     The Blackmar Gambit, 

1  P.Q4,  P-Q4;    2  P.K4.  PxP;    8  P-KB8,  PxP; 
4  KtxP,  &c. 

Vn.     The Centre Counter Gambit, 

L P.K4,  P.Q4;    2  PxP,  QxP,  &c. 
„      VIIL The Queen's Gambit. 

I P.Q4,  P.Q4;    2  P.QB4,  PxP,  &o. 

222  THE QUEEN'S KNIGHT'S GAME. 

SECTION I. 

THE VIENNA OPENING. 

1   P.K4,     P.K4;     2  Kt.QBS. 

rIS opening was  £tcsi brought into practical use for Tourney purposes at the Vienna Chess Congress in  1873.  It was adopted and analysed by Herr Hamppe,  an Austrian player,  and is sometimes called by his name.  It was previously called the Queen's Knight's Opening,  and it was thought by Jaenisch and other authorities to throw away the attack and the advantage of the first move.  Further acquaintance has shown that it is one of the strongest modes of commencing the game. 

The main idea in bringing out the Q  Kt at this early stage is,  as in the modern method of treating thp Sicilian Defence,  to protect the K  PawnJ and to prevent the opponent advancing P-Q4.  But the Knight at QB$ 
has other uses.  It may often be advantageously planted at Q5,  commandt ing Black's Q  B Pawn,  with a  serviceable retreat to K3;  and in some variations by being played to QR4  it enables the first player to get rid of the adverse K  Bishop,  and so prepare the way for White's advance with Q  Pawn,  or KB Pawn. 

The usual defences are  2  ...,  Kt-QB3,  KtKB3,  or B-B4,  but Black may also play  2  B-Kt5,  P-KKt3,  or P-Q3.  The three last named are very rarely played and yield only an inferior game.  After the three first mentioned White generally continues with  3  P-KB4,  when,  if Black has played  2  ...,  Kt-QB3,  he preferably accepts the gambit,  and the attack proceeds with either  4  P-Q4  (the Steinitz Gambit),  or  4  Kt-B3  leading to the Hamppe-Allgaier and other varieties of the King's Gambit.  If, 
however,  Black has played  2  ...,  B-B4  or Kt-KB3,  he must not take the proffered Pawn but move  3  :..,  P-Q4  in the latter case,  and in the former 
8...,  P-Q3 ;  which transforms the game into a  sort of King's Gambit declined. 

,Instead of offering the Gambit White may play  3  B-B4  (Bardeleben's variation),  or  3  Kt-B3,  resolving into the KKt opening,  or  3  P-KKt3 
followed by B-Kt2  as favoured by Herr Paulsen. 

THE QUEEN'S KNIGHT'S GAME. 

m Taple  124.—THE VIENNA OPENING. 

1  P-K4,  P.K4;     2  Kt.QBS,  B.B4(1). 

r 

1 

S a 

4 

5 

o P.B4 
P-Q3! 

Kt.B3     (9) 

BxKt P-Q3     (10) 

4 

Kt-B3 
Kt-KB3  (2) 

RxB Kt-QB3 

Kt-QR4(11) 
Kt-Q2   (12) 

5 

B-B4       (3) 
Kt-B3(dia.) 

P-B3       (7) 

PxP      (8) 
KtxP KtxB KtxKt 

6 

P-Q3       (4) 
B-KKt5  (6) 

P-Q3 
Q-K2 

PxP PxP P-Q4 
Kt-Kt3 

P-Q4 
PxP 

7 

Kt-QR4  (6) 
B-Kt3 

Q-K2 
B-KKt5 

Q-K2 
QKt-Q2 

Q-B3! 
P.Q3 

QxP Kt-K3 

8 

KtxB RPxB B-K3 
QKt-Q2 

P-Q3 
P.QKt4 

B.K3+ 

Q-K3 
Kt-B3 

9 

B-Kt5  — 

0-0-0— 
0-0-0- 

B-Kt3  — 
P-QR4~ 

m B-Q3   — 
0-0     - 

(1)  If  2  ..,  B-Kt5;  3  P:B4  or  3  Kt-Q5.  Black may also play  2  ..,  B.K2 ; 
to stop the continuation  3  P-B4.  If  2  ..,  P-KB4;  3  PxP and White plays the King's Gambit defence with a  move gained. 

(2)  If  4  . . ,  B-KKt5  (a) ;  5  P-KK3  (or B-K2  Eandbuch),  B x  Kt ;  6  Q x  B,  (if) 
QKt-B3 ;  7  B-Kt5,  otherwise B-B4,  and Kt.K2  early as possible.  (Steinitz.)  II 
5  KttQR4,  Kt-Q2I 

(a)  4  ..,  P-QR3  ;  6  B-B4  (or  5  PxP as in Note  3),  Kt-QB3  ;  6  P^QS, 
B-KKt5  (or  6  ..,  Kt-R4) ;  7  P.KR3,  BxKt;  8  QxB,  Kt-Q5  (dia) ;  9  Q-Kt3. 
KtxPch?;  lOK-Qsq,  KtxR;  11  PxP,  PxP;  12  R-Bsq,  Kt-BS;  13  QxKtP, 
K.Q2;  14  RxKt,  B-Q3;  15  B-KKt5,  Q-Ksq";  16  Kt-Q6,  R-KKtsq;  17  RxPch, 
K-Bsq;      18  RxPch,  &c.      (Tschigorin v.    Martinez). 

(3)  If 
5  P-Q4  leaves a  weak K 

5  PxP.   PxP;     6  KtxP,   Q-Q5  (or B-Q51);    7   Kt-Q3,  B.Kt3,  Ac, 
Pawn. 

Or  5  P-Q3,  Kt-B3;  6  Kt-QR4,  B.Kt3;  7\B.K2,  B-Kt5;  SKtxB.  BPxKt; 
9  P-B3,  Q-K2 :    10  0-0,  0-0 ;    11  Kt x  P,  (Van Yliet v,  Lee.) 

(4)  Or  6  P.QB3. 

(6)  n  6  ..,  B-K3;  7  B-KtS.  If  6  ..,  Kt-K^tS;  7  Q.K2,  fif R-Bsq,  Kt x P,) 
B.B7oh;  8  K-Qsq,  B-KtS;  9  R-Bsq.  0-0;  10\P.KR3+.  Other variatioM fti» 
6  ..,  P.QR3,  6  ..,  Kt.QR4,  and  6  ...  P.KB3. 

11^ 

-224 

THE QUEEN'S KNIGHT'S GAME. 

(6)  Or  7  B.QKt5  or P.KR3.    Compara with Table  123.  Col.  12,  Note  5. 

(7)  5  ..,  0-0;  6  P.Q3,  P-B3;  7  PxP,  (a),  PxP;  8  Kt-K2,  Q-K2; 
(Zukertort v.  Judd) :  or  6  ..,  P-QR3;  7  P-B5,  P-QKt4;  8  B-Kt3.  B-Kt2. 
(Potter.) 

(a)  If  7  Q.K2,  P.QKt4  is practicable,  followed by QKt-Q2,  P-QR4,  B.R3  and R-Ksq. 

(8)  If  6  B-B4  or Kt5,  Qch;    6  P.KKt3,  QxRP;    7  K-Bsq,  P.Q3+. 

(9)  If  3  Kt-R4,  BxPch,  or B-K2.  (W.  W.)  See B.  C.  M.,  1889,  p.  439,  fo aiustration.    If  3  P-QKt4,  BxP;    4  Kt-QS,  B-B4;    6  Q-K:t4,  P-KKt3+. 

(10)  If  3  ..,  Kt-QB3;    4  ttxP+.    This Col.  is Paulsen v.  Andersseo. 

(11)  Or  4  B-B4  transposing into the Giuooo Piano. 

(12)  Or  4  ..,  B.Kt3;    6  KtxB,  RPxKt;    6  P.Q4,  &o. 

(Col.  1.) 

(Note  2  a.) 

i i  PI    ■  i m  i rf-rf^'p". 

^% 

M^%..,.,,...y^/m, 

i bI 

,^li f ■    P P 

After Whitens  6tb move. 

After Black's  8tb move. 

THE QUEEN'S KNIGHT'S GAME.  225' 

Table  12$.— THE VIENNA OPENING. 

1  P-K4,  P.K4;     2  Kt-QBS,  Kt-KBS;     3  P.B4{1), 

P-Q4(2). 

6                    7                     8                     9  10 

i PxKP    (3)  P-Q3  

KtxP(dia.)  PxBP B-QKt5(12) 

Q-B3       (4)  Kt-B3              P-K5     (10)  PxKP  ____ 

:^txKt   (5)  B-QKt5^(9)     P-Q5!  KtxP P-Q5     (14) 

.     KtPxKt(6)  B-K2              PxKt  (11)  PxKt P-QR3  (15) 

Q-R5ch  (7)  0-0                 PxKt Q-R5ch B.R4 

P-Kt3  0-0                 Q-K2ch K-K2  PxKt 

^    Q-K6ch Kt-QB3-f B-KS BxKt PxKt Q    QxQ PxKtP PxB P-QKt4 

^    PxQ KBxP B-Kt5ch B-Kt3 

,     B-KKt2                                 P-QKt3  Kt-B3  PxP    + 

10 

Kt-B3                                    0-0                PxP P-Q4                                     BxP Q-Q4 
^X^  en pas R-Ksq -f B-R4  (dia.) 
(8) (13) 

(1)  For  3  B-B4  see p.  148,  Col.  3:  for  3  Kt-B3  see p.  43.  If  3  P-QR3, 
Kt-B3;  4  Kt-B3,  P-Q4 ;  6  PxP,  KtxP;  6  KtxP,  KKtxKt!;  7,  KtxKt, 
KtxQ;  8  KtxQ,  KtxBP;  9  KtxBP,  KtxB;  10  KtxR,  B.KB4 ;  11  B-Bl 
(a)  (b),  B-Q3;  12  P-KKtB,  0-0-0;  13  B-Q5,  Jl-Ksqch  (this also follows 
13  Kt.B7);  14  K-Bsq,  B-R6ch;  15  B.Kt2,  R-Bsq ch;  16  K-Ktsq,  BxB; 
17  KxB,  Kt.B7-f.    (C.  B.  R.) 

(a)  11  P-KKt3,  0-0.0;  12  P-Q3!,  R-Ksqch;  13  K.Q2,  B.B4;  14  Kt.B7, 
P.KR3-I-. 

(b)  11  P.Q3,  B.93;-  12  P-KKt3,  KtxP;  13  PxKt,  BxPch;  14  K-Qsq, 
K.K2  or Bsq and wins with the Pawns. 

(2)  If  3  ..,  PxP;    4  P-K5-f.    If  3  ..,  P.Q3 ;    4  Kt-B3  (or  4  P-Q4),  B-KtS; 

6  P-KR3,  &c.    If  3  ..,  Kt-B3;    4  PxP,  QKtxP;    5  P-Q4,  &c. 

(3)  If  4  PxQP,  Black may equalise by  4  ..,  KtxP;  5  KtxKt,  (if  5  Q-R5, 
KtxP),  QxKt,  &c. :  or he may play  4  ..,  P-K5  (see King's Gambit Declined). 
Mason against Gossip played  4  ..,  PxP;    5  B-Kt5ch,  B.Q2;     6  Q.K2ch,  B-K2; 

7  Kt.B3,  0-0;    8  0-0,  R-Ksql     {B,  C.  M.  1890,  p.  384). 

(4)  5  Q-K2,  Kt.QB3;  6  Kt-B3,  KtxKt;  (or  6  ..,  B.KB4);  7  KtPxKt, 
B.K2;  8  P-Q4,  0-0;  9  Q-E2,  P-KB3-f.:  if  5  ..,  Qch;  6  P-KKt3,  KtxKtP; 
7  Q-B2+. 

(5)  If  5  ..,  P.KB4;  6  Kt-R3 1  (threatening Kt-B4,  and Q-R5ch),  P-B3; 
7  Kt-B4,  P-KKt3 ;    8  P-Q3,  (if)  Kt-Kt4 ;    9  Q-Kt3,  &c.    (W.  W.) 

If  5  ..,  Kt-QB3;  6  B-Kt5,  (if  6  KtxKt,  Kt-Q5:  or  6  ..,  KtxP; 
7  Q-KtS,  Q-K2,  &c.),  KtxKt;  7  KtPxKt,  P.QE3  (c) ;  8  BxKtch,  PxB; 
9  Kt-K2,  B-K2;  10  0-0,  0-0;  11  Kt.Q4  (Tschigorin v.  Gunsberg),  or  11  P.Q4l 
(C.  E.  B.) 

226 

THE QUEEN'S KNIGHT'S GAME. 

(c)  A game Bsnid v.  Burn runs:-  7  ..,  B-K2;  8  P-Q4,  B-E3;  9  Kt-K2 
Q-Q2;  10  0-0,  P-B3;  11  PxP,  BxP;  12  B-R3,  0-0-0;  13  Q-Q3,  B-B2 
14  QR-Ktsq,  B-Kt3;  15  B-R6I,  Kt-R4;  16  BxPch,  KtxB;  17  Q-R6,  P-B3 
18  B-Q6,  &c.    Baird won. 

(6)  Or  6  QPxKt may b©  played:  6  ..,  B-K2;  7  B-KB4,  B-KS;  8  0-0-0. 
(Paulsen v.  Mason.) 

(7)  6  ..,  B.K2;  7  P-Q4,  0-0;  8  B.Q3,  P-KB4I;  9  Kt-Il3,  P-B3;  10  0-0 
(Blackbume v.  Bell):  if  8  ..,  B-Kt4;  9  BxB,  QxB;  10  QxQP,  Q-K6ch; 
11  Kt.K2,  B-Kt5 ;    12  Q-K4-h.    (C.  E.  B.) 

Ktch,.PxB;    12  PxP,  B.R3  (Delmar v.  Mason)  or  12  ..,  B.KB4 

K^"" 

(9)  6  ...  B.K2;  6  P-Q4,  P-QB4;  7  B-Q3,  Kt.QB3;  8  KtxKt,  PxKt; 
9  B x  Pv Kt X  QP ;    10  B-KS    (British C.  Club v.  Liverpool) ;    or  10  Kt x  Kt  (Mason). 

(10)  6  PxP,  KtxP;  6  KtxKt,  QxKt;  7  BxP,  B-Q3;  8  Q-Q2,  0-0+. 
(Blackbume v.  Bum). 

(11)  ^6  QKt-K2,  Kt-Kt5 ;    7  B x  P,  Kt-QB3 ;    8  Kt-BS,  Q-Q4  with a  fine game. 

(12)  4  ..,  P-Q5  is inferior.  If  4  ..,  PxKP;  5  BPxP,  Kt-KtS ;  6  KtxP 
(if  6  P-Q4,  P-K6  as in the Philidor Defence),  KtxKP  (if  6  ..,  Kt-QB3 ;  7  P-B3) ; 
7  P.Q4,  Kt.Kt3;  8  Kt.KB3,  B-K2  (if  8  ..,  Q-K2;  9  K-B2  0.  E.  R.);  9  B-QB4 
or Q3,  &o. 

(13)  If  11  K-K3I,  BxKt;  12  PxB,  Q-K8ch  ;  13  K-B4,  Q.R5ch and draws; 
if  12  B-Kt6ch,  P.QB3  ;  13  PxB,  PxB  ;  14  QxKP,  QxQ  ;  15  KxQ,  Kt-BS, 
&c. ;    the Handbuch gives l5  ,.,  0-0;    to which Gossip replies  16  R-Qsql 

(14)  Jf  6  ..,  Kt.Kt5;'   6  B.Q2  or P.Q4-f. 

(16)    Mr.  Banken'8  suggestion.    If  6  PxKt.  PxKt;    7  P.QKt3,  QxP-. 

(Col.  6. 

mAm^iM.   iiJ 

(Col.  9.) 

After Black's  4th move. 

After Black's  10th move. 

Table  126.— THE VIENNA OPENING. 

1  P.K4,  P.K4;     2  Kt-QBS,  Kt-QBd, 

10 

11 

P-KlKt3  (1) 
B-B4  (2) 
B-Kt2 

P-QR3 
P-Q3 

(3) 
(4) 

P-Q3 
Kt-B3 

Kt-B3 
B-K3 

BxB PxB 

12 
B-B4 

Kt-B3     (5) 
P-QR3    (6) 

B-B4 
P-Q3 

(7) 

P-Q3 
B-KKt5 
B-K3 
Kt-Q5 

(8) 

BxKt     (9) 

PxB Kt-QKtsq Q-B3 

QKt-Q2 

Kt-K2-. 

13 
P-Q4 

(10) 

KtxP P-B4 

B-Kt5 
Kt-B3 

(11) 

BxKtch(12j PxB KtxKtch QxKt PxP BxP 

(13) 

P-Q3 
Q-Kt3 

(14) 

Kt-B3 

+ 
(15) 

14 

PxP p:t-Q5 

Kt-B3 
B-KB4 

P-Q3     (16) 

B-QKt5 

P-QR3 

B-R4 

P.QKt4 

B;;QKt3 

b:k2 

P-KB3 
Kt-KR4 
Kt.K2  — 

15 

Kt-Kt5 

B.B4     (17) 
B-KB4 

P-Q3 
Kt-K2 

P.QR3 

QKtxP(Q4) 

KtxKt KtxKt Ql^2       ^ 

P-KB3 

P.B4    + 

(1)  A favourite continuation with L.  Paulsen. 

(2)  Or3  ..,Kt-B3;    4B-Kt2,  B-B4;    6  P-Q3,  P-QR3 ;    6'P-B4,P-Q3;    7  P-B6, 
&C.     (Paulsen and Bier v.  Schwartz and Schottlander.) 

If  3  ..,  P-Bi;    4  B-Kt2,  P-QR3!  is given by Gossip. 

4  ..,  P-Q3;    6  KKt.K2,  P-B4  ;    6  P.Q3,  Kt-B3  ;     7  0-0,  0-0: 
;    9  KtxB,  RPxKt;    10  P-KB4,  &c.     (Pitschel v.  Schwartz.) 

(4)  If  5  KKt-K2,  Kt-B3 ;    6  P-KR3  to stop Kt-KKt5. 

(5)  If  3  ..,  B-B4;    4  Q-Kt4.    This Col.  is Bardeleben's variation. 

(6)  If  4  P-Q3,  Kt-QIM. 
(7)4..,  KtxP;      5  BxPch,  KxB 

8  P-Q3,  R-Bsq;    9  B-K3  =  . 

(8)  If  5  ..,  P-KR3;    6  Kt-B3,  P-Q3 

(9)  If  7..,P-KR3;    8  BxKt,  PxB; 
(10) 
(11) 

(3) 
B.Kt3 

8  Kt.R4. 

6KtxKt,  P.Q4;     7  Kt-Kt3.   B.QB4 

7  Kt-QR4. 

9P-QB31:    if  9  Q.R5,  Kt-Q5.    (C.B.R.) 
The Fyfe Gambit originated by Mr.  Fyfe of Glasgow. 
Or  4  . . ,  Kt-QB3.     (Forsyth.) 

(12)  If  5  . . ,  Kt-QB3 ;  6  P-B5,  which also follows  5  . . .  Kt x  Ktch ;  6  Q x  Kt.  P.03 

(13)  If  8  B-QB4,  Q-K2;  9  QBxP,  Kt.B3  ;  10  P-KS,  P.Q4  T  11  B-Kt3. 
P-B8  +  .    (C.  E.  R.)    If  11  BxP,  B-Kt5;    12  Q-Q3,  0-0-0. 

(14)  Or  9  B-B4.     (Forsyth.) 

(15)  If  10  B-Q3,  or P-K5,  Kt-R4 :  if  10  Q x  P,  R-KKtsq ;  11  Q.R6.  R.Kt3  • 
12  Q-R4,  KtxP-f.     (0.  E.  R.)    After  10  B-K2,  KtxP;     11  QxP,  Q-BS,  &c. 

(16)  If  5  ..,  KtxKt;  6  PxKt,  Q-K2ch ;  7  K-Q2I,  Q-Kt5ch ;  8  K-Bsq f  • 
If  6  ..,  B-Kt5ch;  7  B-Q2,  Q-K2ch ;  8  Q-K2 1,  BxBch;  9  KxB,  QxQchi 
10  BxQ,  Kt-Kt5;     11  B.B3  or B4  =  .    (G.  E,  R.)  .  -b v.      , 

(17)  6  , , ,  Kt-KB3  and Boh also turn cut in Black's favour. 

THE QUEEN'S KNIGHT'S GAME. 

I Table  127.— THE VIENNA OPENING. 

1   P.K4,  P-K4;    2  Kt-QBS,  Kt-QBS;    8  P.KB4.  PxP. 

16                   17                   18                   19  20 

.     Kt-Q5  (1) Kt-B3     (7)  _______    

Kt.B3              Q-R5ch  (5)  B-K2  B-B4     (11)  P-KKt4      ' 

Kt-KB3  (2)     K-K2  B-B4       (8)  P-Q4  ?  (12)  B-B4 

B-B4!              Kt-Q5ch(6)  B-R5cb KtxP FKt5        * 

P-Q3  (3)     K-Q3  P-Kt3     (9)  KtxKt  0-0 

^     KtxKt Kt-K3  PxP Q-R5ch PxKt PxKt Kt>KB3  0-0  K-K2  QxP    (15) 

^     Kt-Q5              Q-R4  PxPch P-Q4  Kt-K4 

BxP  (4)     P-B4  K-Rsq Q-Q3 1  (13)  QxP 

^     Q-B3-f P-QB3  P-Q3     (10)  B-Kt6ch Q.B3 

Kt-B3  —  BxPch—  Kt-B3»  Q-Kt3 

^                                        —  K-Bsq    —  0-0-0  (14)  Q-Kt2+ 

(1)  Suggested,  independently of each other,  by Mr.  G.  B.  Fraser of Dundee,  and Mr.  J.  G.  Cunningham of London:    analysed by Mr.  Fraser. 

(2)  If  5  P-Q4,  KtxKt;  6  PxKt,  Q-R5ch;  7  K.K2,  Q.R4ch+.  If  5  B-B4 
(Fraser),  B-Bd;  6  Kt-B3,  KtxP;  and if  7  P-Q4,  KtxP;  or if  7  Q-K2,  O-O-h. 
(C.  E.  R.)    5  Q-B3,  and  5  KtxKtch,  are also inferior. 

(3)  'If  6  P-Q4,  QKtxP;  7  KKtxKt,  KtxKt;  8  PxKt,  Q-R5ch;  9  K.K2, 
P-B6ch;    10  K-K3,  PxP;     11  BxP,  Q-Kt4ch  ;     12  K-B2,  Q-BSch and wins. 

If  6  KtxKtch,  QxKt;    7  P-K5,  KtxP;    8  Q-K2,  O-O-f-.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(4)  If  8  KtxKt,  Q.R5ch,  &c.;    and if  8  P-B3,  Q-K2ch.    (C.  E.  R.) 
(6)  This Col.  and note contain Mr.  Fraser's analysis. 

(6)  5  ..,  B-B4;  6  Kt-KB3,  Q-B7ch ;  7  K-Q3,  Kt.K4ch;  8  K-B3,  KtxKt; 
9  QxKt,  Q-Q5ch;    10  K-Kt3+. 

(7)  If  4  P-KR4,  B-K2 ;  5  Kt-B3,  P.Q3 ;  6  P-Q4,  (if  6  B-B4,  Kt-K4,  &c.) 
B-Kt5;  7  B-B4  (or  7  BxPI)  BxPch+.  If  4  B-B4,  Qch;  6  K-Bsq,  B-B4; 
6  Q-K2,  Kt.Q5;  7  Kt-B3I:  5  . .,  P.KKt4  and  4  . .,  Kt.B3  lead into the Bishop's Gambit;  Cols.  17  and  4  respectively. 

(8)  Or,  6  P-Q4,  P.KKt4  (if B  checks,  K.K2+) ;    6  P-Q5,  or B.QB4.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(9)  Or,  6  K-Bsq,  PQ3;  7  P-Q4,  B-Kt5;  8  QBxP,  Kt-B3;  9  Q-Q2-f-. 
(C.  E.  R.)    See the Cunningham Gambit. 

(10)  If  8  ..,  B-B3;    9  P=K5,  P-Q3;    10  PxB,  KtxP  =  . 

(11)  A line of play suggested by Mr.  Adamson of London. 

(12)  5  B.B4,  Kt.Q5;    6  P-Q3,  P.KKt4;    7  P-KR4-I-.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(13)  PxP,  KtxP,  Kt-B3,  and K.Q3  are all inferior. 

(14)  10  P.K5,  P-KKt4  (if  10  .,,  Kt-B3 ;    11  BxP);    11  B.Q2-I-. 

(15)  If  7  P-Q4,  KtxP  (orB-Kt2I);  8  QxKt?  (if  8  QBxP,  Kt-K3.-  9QxP^ 
Q.B3),  Q.Kt4;  9R-B2,B.B4;  10  QBxP,  QxPch;  llRxQ,  BxQch;  12  R-B2, 
P-Q3+.    (NaBh.)    The Col.  is by Mr.  J.  Russell of Glasgow. 

Table  128.— THE PIEBCE GAMBIT. 

1  P.K4,  P-K4;     2Kt-QB3,Kfc-QB3;      3P.B4,PxP; 
4  Kt.B3,  P-KKt4. 

21  22  23  24  ^5 

P-Q4       (1) 

5102  P-Q3               P-Kt5 

P-Q5!  P-Q5               B-B4 

^     Kt-K4(di^.)  Kt-K4     (6)    PxKt Kt-Q4      (2)  P-KR4            B-Kt5cli          0-0         (9) 

P.Q3  P-KR3  B-Q2       (7)  P-Q3  P-Q4     (18) 

B-Kt5ch P-KKt3  BxBch QxP PxP  (dia.) 

^     B-Q2  PxKtP KxB B^K3  B-KKt5 

P-KR4    (3)  PxP P-KKt3  BxB     (10)  R-Ksqch 

^     BxB      (4)  PxP P-KR4  PxB KKFK2 

QKtxB RxR PxP Q-R5ch  (11)  Kt-K4 

^^     P.QR3  BxR KtxKtch K-Q2  B-Kt2 

Kt-QB3  KtxP QxKt P-Q5  *  PxP P-R3-f B-B3       (5)    P-Kt5      (8)  Kt-Q5    (12)  B-tlQ     (14) 

11 

(1)  The Pierce Gambit.    See Messrs.  Pierce's book so called,  also B.  C.  M.,  for numerous articles and notes by Messrs.  W.  T.  Pierce and C.  E.  Ranken. 

(2)  7  P-Q6,  Kt X Ktch ;   8  Q x Kt,  P x  P;  9  P-KR4,  P-KR3 ;   10  B-B4  (Padsen v. 
Englisch),  Kt-B3 1  .(Gossip) :    if  9  Kt-Kt5,  B-K4  ;    10  Q-QR3,  P-Q4.  &c.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(3)  9  Kt.B5,  B.KB3  ;    10  P-KR4,  P-KR3  ;    11  PxP,  PxP  (a) ;    12  RxR,  BxR- 

13  Q-R5,  Q-B3  (13  ..,  B-B3  I C.  E.  R.) ;  .  14  P.KKt3,  PxP!  (Pierce t.  Hart).      ' 

(a)   11    ..,  BxP;      12  BxBch,    QxB;      13  P-KKt3,    Kt-Kta ;      14    PxP. 
KtxP.;    15  Q-Kt4,  Kt-Kt3;    16  Kt-KtTch,  K-Qsq;.    17  BxBch,  &c.    (Pierce.) 

(4)  Or  9  ..,  P-QB3  foUowed by P-KR3.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(5)  12  Q-R5,  BxKt;    13  Q-R8,  Kt-B6ch  (or  13   ..,  K-Bsq:    Pierce v.  Hart): 

14  K-K2,   Kt-Kt8ch;     15  K-Q3,  K-Bsq;    16  BxB,  QxB;    17  B-Kt2,  &c Mr. 
Ranken prefers  11  . . ,  P.Q3.    B.  C.  M.,  1892-,  p.-  215. 

(6)  6  ..,  P-Kt5;     7  PxKt,   PxKt;     SQxBP,   PxP,     9  B..QB4  (Pierce). 
Q.B3orB.K3  =  .    (C.  E.  R.)  '* 

(7)  If  7  ..,  P-B3;    SPxP.PxP;    9  KtxKt,  PxB; .  10  Q-Q5+.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(8)  If   12  Q-Kt3,   Q-K2;      13  B-Q2,   P-KB4 ;      14    Q-Q3,    PxP    (R-Ksq I) ; 

15  Q-Kt5ch,  K-Bsq;     16   0-0-0,  Kt-BS ;     17  KR-Ksq,  B-RS,  &o Or  12  Q-Q3,  Q-R5cb ;    13  K.K2,  P-QR3,  &c. 

280 

MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS. 

I 

(9)  If  7  QB X  P,  P-Q3  ;    8  Q x  P  (if  8  0-0,  'B-Kt5),  Kt x  P ;     9  Q.B2 !,  Kt-K3 : 
10  0-0,  Q-B3+.    {C.  E..  B.)    If  7  QxP,  Q-B5cb ;    8  P-KtS,  KtxP.    (Pieree.) 

(10)  If  9  B-Kt5,  P-QR3I;    not  9  ..,  B-Q2  on account of  10  QxP. 

(11)  Or  10  BxP,  Q-B3  (a);  11  P-K5. (Pierce),  PxP;  12  PxP,  B.B4ch; 
13  K-Rsq,  Q-Kt3  ;  14  QR-Qsq,  B.Qsq+  :  if  14  Kt-K4,  Kt-Q6 ;  15  Q.Q3,  B-KtS  > 
16P.B3,  0-0-0.    (0.  E.B.) 

(a)  10  .,,  KtxP;    11  Q-B5oh,  IC.Q2;    12  B-K6. 

4 

(12)  Continued  12  BxP,  Q-Ksq;    13  Q-Qsq,   P-K4;    14  B.K3,  Q.Kt3;    (if) 
16  BxKt,  PxB;    16  QxP,  B.Kt2  ;    17  Q-Q3,  B-Ksq-}-.    (0.  E.  B.)  _ 

1 

(13)  Or. 7  ..,  B".Kt2;  but  7  ..,  KtxP,  Kt-K4,  and Q-Kt4  aro inferior Kt X  P is met by  8  QB-x P  not\Q x  Kt. 

(14)  12  BxP,  Kt.B4;  13  B-KtSch,  P.B3 ;  14  P.Q6,  PxB;  16  Kt-Kt5, 
B-K3;  16,KtxB,  PxKt;  17  BxP,  0-0;  18  B-Kt5,  Q-Q2;  19  BxKt,  QxP; 
10  P-B3  with two Pawns for his piece.-    {B.  C.  M.,  1891,  p.  511.) 

(Col.  21.) 

(Col.  25.) 

iBAi«#Ml^iP After.  Black's  6th move. 

After White's  8tb move. 

MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS.  2dl- 

[             Table 

129.-THE m 
.K4;     2  Kt.Q lMPpe a 

LLGAIER 
.QB3;     3 

GAM P-I 

[BIT. 

1  P.K4,  P B3,    Kt 

54,  PxP; 

4  Kt.B3 

P 

.KKt4;      5 

P-KR4 

P 

.Kt5; 

6  Kt-KKt5. 

26 

ft 

27 

28 

29 

SO P-Q3 

(1) 

Kt-K4 

P-KR3 

7     B-B4 
•Kt-K4 

P-Q4 

KtxP P-KR3 

KxKt P     B-Kt3 
P-KR3 

BxP! 
Kt-Kt3    (2) 

P-Q4 
P-Q3 

(1) 

P-Q4       (7) 

^     PxKt 

— 

KtxP KxKt BxP B-Kt2 

PxP       (8) 

Kt-B3 

QKt-K2  (9) 

^^    PxKP B-B4ch B-B4ch B-B4ch B-QB4 

P-Q4 

K-Kt2 

K.Kt3 

(5) 

K-Kt2 

„     BxPch 
^^     k^K2 

BxPch  (3) 

0-0 

P-K5 

BxP    (10) 

K.Kt2 

B-K2 

B-B4 

(6) 

Kt-Kt8 

,^     QxQch 

0-0 

Q-Qi B-Q3 

B-K5ch P-B8 

B-Q2 

P-KR4 

Kt-B3 

BxKt 
^^    RxB B-B4     -: 

P.K5 

BxBch P-R5 

Kt-B3  — 

4 

KxB IttxB       ■■ 

^^     B-K3+ 

Q-Q3ch+ 

PxKt Kt-R2   (11) 

m I£6...P-B3 

;    7  Q X  P,  P-KR4 ;    8  Q-B5,  QKt-K2  ;    9 

Qxl 

►  (B4),  PxKt; 

(2)  Or  8  ..,  PxKt;    9  BxKt,  P-KB3;    10  B-Kt3,  P-Q3  =  .    (C.  E.  R.) 

(3)  Or  10  KtxP,  (if)  B-K3 ;    11  BxBP.    (Monck.) 

(4)  If  8  B-B4ch,  P.Q4;  9  BxPch,  K-Kt3 ;  lO' P-Q4,  KKt.K2 ;  11  BxP. 
B-Kt2-H.-    If  8  QxP,  P-KR4  ;  9  QxBPch,  Q-B3  +  . 

(5)  Of  10  ..,  K-Ksq;  11  B-K3,  Q-K2;  12  Q.Q2  and  0-0-0  (Pierce)":  ,or 
12  0-0,  QxRP?;  13  R-B7,  P-Kt6 ;  14  RxB,  Q-R7ch;  15  K-Bsq,  Q.RSoh; 
16  B-KtBq.    (Zukertort v.  Ernst.) 

(6)  If  11  ..,  PxP;  12  Q-Q3ch,  K-B3 ;  13  B-Kt5ch I,  PxB;  14  R-KBsqch, 
K-K2;  15  R-BTch,  K-Ksq;  16  Q-KtG-f  :  or  12  ..,  B-B4;  13  Pch,  K-BS; 
14  PxPch,   KtxP;      15  BxKtch,    KxB;      16  Q.K3ch-f.    (E.  F.) 

If  11...,  KKt-K2;    12  Pch,  K-R2;    13  P.K6. 

(7)  Eor  8  . . ,  P-B6,  or P-KR4,  see the Allgaier Gambit.    8  . . ,  B-Kt5  is inferior. 

(8)  9  KtxP,  B-K3;  10  B-B4,  Kt.B3  (if  10  ..,  B-Kt2;  11  BxP);  11  BxP, 
KtxKt;    12  PxKt,  BxP;    13  BxBch,  QxB;    14  0-0.    (Steinitz.) 

9  B X  P is an Allgaier Variation. 

(9)  Or9  ..,  Q-K2ch  ;  10  K-B2,  P-Kt6oh ;  11  K-Ktsq,  KtxP;  (if)  12  QxKt, 
Q-B4  (Salvioli) :    or  10  B-K2,  P-B6 ;    11  0-0,  QxP;    12  B-KB4,  Kt-B3,  &c. 

(10)  11  0-0,  P.B6 ;     12  PxP,  P-Kt6;     13  B.B4,  Kt-B4-f 

(11)  15  Q-Q3,  Q-KU  ;  16  Kt.K4,  Q x  KP  ;  17  0-0,  B-Q3  ;  18  Kt x  B,  Q x  Kt : 
19  QR-Ksq,  R-Bsq  ;  20  R x  R,  Kt x  R ;  21  Q-QB3ch,  K.B2 ;  22  R-Bsqch,  K-Ksq  ; 
23  Q.Kt7,  Q-K2 ;    24  Q.Kt3  to toUow with B-Q3  and B.Kt6-f-      (Pierce v.  Budden.) 

232 

MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS. 

10 
11 
12 
18 
14 
15 

Table  130.— THE STEINITZ GAMBIT. 

1  P^K4,  P-K 
4  P 

1 

PxP B-KKt5ch Kt-B3 
0-0-0     (1) 
PxKt PxPch  (2) 
K-Ktsq Kt-Kt5    (3) 
Kt-B8 
P-B3       (4) 
KR-Ksqch K-Q3 
Q-R4       (5) 

4;    2  Kt-QB3,  Kt-QB3-    3P'-KB4,PxP; 
.Q4,   Q.R5ch;     5  K.K2,   P.Q4. 
2  3  4  5 

Q-K2ch(10) 

K-B2 

Q-R5ch P-KKt3 

PxPch K-Kt2(dia.) 

KtxP PxP Q-Kt5 

Q-Ksqch(ll) 

B-K2 

B-Q3 

(dia.) 

BxKtch(6) 
KtPxB P-QR3 
P-B3  ! 
PxKt Q-Q3       (7) 
Kt-B3 
B-Q2       (8) 
KR-Ksqch K-Qsq 

(12) 

K-Qsq B-KB4 

Kt-B4 
Kt-B3 

B-Q3 

(13) 

P-Kt5      (9) 

B-Q3 

Q-Ksqch(14) 

QKt-K2 

PxP QxQP Kt-B3  (15) 

Q-Kt3 

B-K3 

QxP B-Q3 

B-QKt5 

B.Q4 

P-KB3  (16) 

PxKt PxRP KKt-K2 

B-R6ch K-B3 

O^OO PxPch K-Ktsq B-B4       -^ 

B.Kt5ch  4 

I 

(1)  If  7  ...  QKt-K2;    8  P-Q6,  &c. 

(2)  Or  9  Q-Ksq.  (L'hermet of Magdeburg.)  If  9  . . ,  R-Ksqch ;  10  K-Q2,  Q-Qsq. 
(Steinitz plays  10  K-Q3  and makes White give up his Queen for three pieces.) 
Mr.  Waybe notes  (if)  11  Q-R4,  Kt-B3  ;  12  PxPch,  and  13  B-Q3,  BxKt+.  Mr. 
Eankengives9  ..,  Q-R4 ;   (if)  10  K-B2,  RxP!:  (if)  10  BxP,  Kt-B3  or BxP. 

(3)' 10  PxB,  Kt.B3;  11  QxRch,  RxQ;  12  B-Q2,  R-Ksqch  ;  13  K-Q?^ 
Q-B7;  U K-Bsq,  BxKt;  15  PxB,  QxKBP and wins.  (New York v.  Phila- 
delphia.) 

(4)  If  11  K-Q3  (Steinitz),  Black can at least draw by B-B4ch ;  (ii)  12  K-BS, 
Et.K5ch;  13  K-Kt3,  Q-B3  ;  14  Q-Ksq,  KR-Ksq  ;  15  B-Q3,  BxP-f  .  (Steinita V.  Shipley.)  If  12  K-B4,  B-K3cli  ;  13  K.^Q3,  &c.  :  or  13  KxB,  P-QR4 ; 
14  KtxP,  Q-R4ch;    15  Kt-KS,  Kt-Q2ch ;    16  K-KtS,  QxQ;    17  Kt-B6ch,  &c. 

(f^)  With a  strong attack.  If here  12  . . ,  B-B4ch  ;  13  K-B4,  B-K3ch  ;  14  K x  B, 
P.QR4;  15  KtxP  (if KtxQ mate in two),  Q-R4ch  ;  16  Kt-K5l Kt-Q2ch  (a); 
17  K-Kt5,  QxQ;    18  KtxKtch,  RxKt;    19  BxP,  QxR;    20  K-Kt6  and wins. 

(a)  He can recover the two pieces by  16  . . ,  K x  Kt,  and if  17  Q x  Q,  R-Q4ch,  but would lose by Pawns :    if  16  . .,  Q x Q  ;    17  Kt-B6ch,  &c.    {B.  C.  M.,  1885,  p.  53.) 

(6)  Analysed by Mr.  Gossip.    (C.  P.  C,  1882,  pp.  61  and  287.) 

(7^  13  Q-Kt3,  or Q-Q2,  or B.Q2  orP-R4  maybe played.    If  13  K-Q3,  BxP; 
14  P X  B,  R X  Pch.    (Rosenthal.) 

(8)  If  14  QxKtP,  KR-Ksqch;    15  K moves,  Q-B7+. 

(9)  16  K-B2,  Kt-Q4;    17  R-Bsq  (Steinitz),  PxP;    18  PxP,  R-K3+. 

(10)  Introduced by Rev.  G.  A.  Macdonnell.  If  7  K-B3,  Q-R5,  &c.  White may avoid this variation by  6  Kt-B3,  (if)  Q-K2 ;    7  P-K5.    (Fraser.) 

(11)  11  B-KB4,  B-QB4  (exchanging Queens here is bad) ;  12  Kt-Kt5,  Kt x  Kt ; 
13  BxKtch,  K-Qsq;  14  Kt-B3,  P-KB3 ;  15  Q-K2,  B-Q2 ;  16  QR-Ksq,  Kt-K2; 
17  P.Q6I  (Burn v.  Miniati.)  Black replies  17  ...  Kt-Q4 !  See B,  C.  M.,  1888, 
p.  155. 

(12)  11  . . ,  K-Qsq ;  12  B-Q3,  P-KKt4  ? ;  13  Kt-K4,  P.KB3 ;  14  Q.B3,  Kt-B4 ; 
15BxP,  B-K2;    16  B.KB4+. 

(13)  If  15  Kt.K5,  B X  Kt ;    16  Q x  B.  Kt-Q3 ;    17  R-R4,  P-BS,  &c.    (0.  E.  B.) 

(14)  10  Q-K2ch,  QKt-K2  ;    11  Kt-B3,  B-R6ch,  &c. 

(15)  12  R-R4,   Q-B3 ;     13  Kt-K4,  Q-Kt3 ;     14  B-Q3,    B-KB4 ;     15  KKt-B3. 

(Steinitz.) 

(16)  R-QKtsq  (or RxP.  C.  E.  B.),  BxKt;  17  BxB,  QxRP;  18  R-Kt5,  &C Gossip gives White a  won game. 

(Col.  1.) 

(Col.  3.) 

W^.      WM WM A  f^^ 

wv/A.       '/////////,.        '^m After White's lOtb move. 

After White's  9th move. 

234 

MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS. 

I Table  131.— THE STEINITZ GAMBIT. 

1P.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt.QB3,  Kt-QB3;    3  P-B  4  ,  P x  P  (l)j 
4  P.Q4,    Q.RScb  ;    5  K.K2. 

8 

P-Q4 

KtxP B-KKt6ch Kt-B3 

00-0 

BxP FBiT 

(2) 

10 

11 

P-Kg B-KKt5ch Kt-B3 

0-0-0 

BxP FB3 

B-Kt3 

Q^Ri PxP KtxBP  -f P-Q3 

Kt-B3 

(3) 

BrKtS BxP 

0-0-0 
K-K3- 

(4) 
(5) 

Q-R4—  (6)' 

9 

P-QKt3  (7) 

Kt-Kt5 

B-R3 

P-R4 

BxKtch(8) 

PxB Q-R4ch Kt-B3 

QxKtPch K-B2 

Q-KR4 

BxP Kt-B3 

10 

i Q-Q2    (10) 

P-KKt4 
Kt-Q5 

K-Qsq Kt-KB3(11) 

Q-R4 

K-Qsq   (12) 
B-KKt2 
B-K2 

Q.Kt3 
P-K5 

(9)    KKt-K2   -^ 

5  RxB,   Q-R5ch; 
(W.  W.) 

10  QxP^  P-KKt4; 

6  P.KKt3,  QxBP; 
11  B-Q2,  B.Kt2  01 

(1)  113..,  B-B4;    4  PxPI,  BxKt 
7  B.Kt2,  foUowed by Kt-Q5  and P-Q4+. 

(2)  8  P.B3,  P-B4;    9  Q-QS,  PxP Q.R4+. 

(3)  If  5  ..,  P.KKt4;  6  Kt.Q5,  K-Qsq;  7  Kt-KB3,  Q-B4 ;  8  K-B2,  B-Kt2; 
9  B-K2,  or P-B3.  (C.  M.,  1887.)  A game Guest >.  Bird runs:— 6  Kt-B3,  Q-R4 ; 
7  Kt-Q5,  B-Kt2;  8  P-B3,  Kt-B3  ;  9  KtxPch,  K-Qsq;  10  KtxR,  KtxKP; 
11  Q.R4,  R-Ksq ;  12  K-Q3,  Q-Kt3  ;  13  K-B4,  KtPch  ;  14  K x  P,  Kt-Q3ch ; 
15  K-B5,  Q-K3  and wins  :  if  16  Q-Kt3  [Handhuch)  Kt-K5ch ;  17  K-Kt5,  Kt x  QPch and mates in two moves. 

(4)  7  ..,BxKtch;  8  KxB  (if PxB.  QxB  ;  9  Kt-Q5  and White can only gain B  and P  for B  and Kt),  Kt-B3 ;    9  B-QKt5.    (Lipschutz v.  Jklackenzie.) 

(5)  8  B-Kt3,  Q-B3;    9  P-Q5,  Kt-Q5ch,  or Kt-K4  =  .    (C.  E.  R.) 

(6)  8  ..,  BxKt;    9  QxB,  P-B4;    10  P-Q5.    <Steinitz v.  Winawer.) 

(7)  Played first at the Baden Congress,  1870,  between Steinitz and Minckwitz. 

(8)  For  7  . . ,  0-0-0,  see Cols.  11-15 :    if  7  . . ,  Kt x  Pch ;    8  Q x  Kt,  P-QB3,  &c. 

(9)  If  12  P-K5,  Kt-Q4;    13  B.Q2-f-. 

(10)  Mr.  W.  T.  Pierce's variation.  If now  6  ..,  B-R3ch ;  7  K-Qsq,  BxB; 
S Et.B3,  &c.  J 

(11)  If  8  P.KKt3,  Q-R4ch ! ;    9  K-Ksq,  Q-Kt3 :    if  9  K-Q3,  B-QR3ch,  «fcc.      . 

(12)  If  9  K-B2,  Q-Kt3 ;  10  P-K5,  P-KtS ;  11  KtxKBP,  Q-Kt2;  12  Kt.Kt5. 
KtxQP.    (C.E.B.) 

Table  132.-.THE STEINITZ GAMBIT. 

1  P.K4,  P-K4;  2  Kt-QBS,  Kt-QB3;  8P.B4,  PxP; 
4  P-Q4,  Q.R5ch;  5  K.K2,  P-Q Kt  3  (1);  6  Kt-KtS, 
B-R3(2);    7  P-R4(3),  0-0-0;    8Kt.B3,Q-K2;    9  K.B2, 

Kt-B3. 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 

11                   12  18  14                   15 

Kt-Q6ch KtxRPch BxP P-K5 

K-Ktsq K-Kt2  KtxPch Kt-Kt5ch BxB BxBch K-Ktsq K-Ktsq Kt-Kt5ch KxB BxKt BxKt K-Bsq     (4)  KtxKt P-R5               PxB!  PxB QxKt KtxPch KtxPch Kt-R4  QKtxKP P-K5  K-Bsq K-Bsq P-B3  PxKt     (8) 

Q-R3  PxKt KxKt?  P-KB3  QxP Q-K2  BxP PxPdisch Q-B2  P-B3 

P-B3+  P^KBi KxP FQ4  B-B4ch Q-Q3ch Q-Q3       (6)  P-QKt4  Kt-Q4 

K-Kt2     (5)  Kt-Kt2    (7)    P-Kt44- 

(1)  First analysed by Mr.  Praser in C.  P.  C,  1879,  p.  97.  See Cols.  9-10. 
Against Tschigorin,  Steinitz played  5  . .,  Kt-B3.    {B.  C.  M.,  1892,  p,  217.) 

<2)  6  ..,Kt-B3  (Martinez);  7  Kt-KB3,  Q-Kt5 ;  8  KtxPch,  (P-K5  !),  K-Qsq ; 
9  Kt X  R,  Kt X  KP  ;  10  P-QB4,  B-Kt5 1 ;  11  Q-R4,  Kt x  QPch and wins.  (Morgan V.  Shipley.) 

(3)  Moves  6  and  7  may be transposed  :    7  P-B4  is very inferior.. 

(4)  12  K.K2  seems feasible,  followed by P-K5,  P-R3,  or R-Ksq,  according to Black's play.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(5)  16  R-Ksq,  Q-Kt5  :  17  P-QKt3,  B.Q3  ;  18  B-Q2  I,  KtxBch  ;  19  KtxKt, 
BxRP-h. 

(6)  The reply  15  . . ,  Kt-Ktsq given in our first edition is weak against  16  K-B4. 
Mr.  Fraser now suggests  15  . . ,  Kt-Kt5,  as good enough for equality. 

(7)  16  R X  P,  P.Kt4  ;    17  B.Q2,  B-Kt2  ;    18  B-Q3,  QKt-Q34- 

(8)  If  13  P.R3,  Kt-K6 :    14  B x  Kt,  Kt x  Ktch,  &c. 

236  MISCELLANEOUS GAl^fBITS. 

SECTION III THE CENTEE AND DANISH GAMBITS. 

I P.K4.    P.K4:    2    P-Q4.    P v  P. 

rE Centre Gambit has received Tery little notice in the earlier works on the game.  Though one form of it at least is as old as Stamma, 
who was a  contemporary of Philidor,  the latter makes no mention of it in his treatise.  It is not to be found in the first three editions of the Handbuch,  and not until Staunton introduced a  brief notice of it in his Praads  (1860)  does it appear to have been recognised in this c(5untry as a 
legitimate and separate book opening.  The reason of this is probably that in many of its phases it is closely allied to the Scotch Opening,  but the form contained in our Cols.  1  to  5  has little affinity with that dSbut and was only resuscitated in modern times at the Berlin Congress of 
1881.  The general advantages of the Centre Gambit are that it cannot like other gambits be safely refused ;  Black is practically compelled to take the Pawn.  Then too,  by at once opening scope for action to all White's pieces save his Rooks,  it yields a  rapid development.  Further,  in the form given in Cols.  1  to  6  the White Queen at K3  prevents the effectual advance of Black's Queen's Pawn,  and the posting of his Bishop at QB4. 

The Danish or Scandinavian Gambit is a  graft upon the Centre by the sacrifice of a  second Pawn,  and is so called because it was chiefly practised by Copenhagen players and by the Swedish player Herr Lindehn, 
The Prussian Master,  Von der Lasa,  has published a  valuable analysis of it. 
Though the sacrifice of the Pawns is not soimd,  it yields a  strong attack, 
and often easily trips up those players who are unacquainted with the proper defence. 

Table  188.— THE CENTBE GAMBIT. 

P-E4.P-K4r    2P-Q4,  PxP;  8QxP,  Kt-QB8. 
12                    8  4  6 

4    Q-^^     W B-Kt5ch(2)  B-K2  P-KKt8  P-QKtS f5     P-B3  B-Q2      (6)  B-Q2      (7)  B-Q2      (9) 

B-R4  I^B8  B^Kt2  B-Kt2 

A Q-Kt3 !  Kt-QB3  Kt-QB3  Kt-QB3 

Q-B3       (3)  .  P-Q3  P-Q3  B^Bi         " 

„     B-KB4    (4)  P-KB4  B'K2  P-KB4  Q-KtS 

^     P-Q3  P-Q3  0-0  KKt-K2  (8)  Ki^^S Kt-Q2     (5)  B-Q3  0-0-0  ^  0-0-0  0-0-0+ 

^    B-K3  B-Kt3  B-K8   —  B^^S KKt-B8  Kt-B8  Kt-B3 

^     Q-KtS—  KKt-K2  q:Q2 

Et-B8  —  Kt-Q5 

B-Q2   —  0-0-0 

ti  5:53+ 

(1)  Introduced  1881  by W.  Paulsen,  but the line of play dates from Stamma, 
1745. 

(2)  4  . . ,  P-B4  (Philip) ;  5  P X  Pdisch.  B-K2  (if  5 . . ,  K-B2 ;  6  Kt-KB8) ;  6-B-Qa t : 
if  6  B-B4  in this or previous variation,  P-Q4  with a  good game.  If  4  . . ,  qTBB  ' 
6  Kt-QB3,  Kt-Q5;  6  B-Q3,  B.B4;  7  Q-Kt3  (Winawer v.  Tschigorin),  or Kt-Q5. 
(G.  jEj.  K.) 

(3)  If  6  . . ,  Kt-B3  ;  7  B-Q3  ! :  if  7  Q x  KtP,  E-KKtsq ;  8  Q-E6,  Q-B:2  ;  9  P-BS, 
P-Q4:    if7P-K5,Q-K2:    if  7  B-KKt5.  Kt x  P ;    8Q-K3,QxB.    (PoUock.) 

(4)  Or  7  Kt-QR3,  P-Q3 ;  8  B-QKt5,  B.Q2 ;  9  Kt.K2,  KKt-KS:  10  Kt-QBi. 
B.Kt3;    11P-QR4,P-KR3;    12  0-0.  B.K3.    (Hull v.  Glasgow.) 

(6)  Or8B-QKt5.     (Winawer v.  Riemann.) 

<6)  If  6  it-QB3,  Kt-QKt5  and  6  . . .  P-Q4.    H  5  Q-KKtS,  Kt-BS I. 

<7)  Or  5  Kt-QB3,  B-Kt2  (or Kt-KtS.  W.  W.) ;    6  Kt.Q5.    Or  5  P-KB4. 

(8)  If  7  . . ,  Kt.B3 ;   8  B-K2 1.    This Col.  is Tschigorin v.  Mackenzie. 

(9)  Mr,  Potter gives  5  B.Kt5. 

tbb MISCELLANEOirS GAMBITS. 

I Tablb  134.— TB 
1  P.K4,  P^K 

.E CENTRE GAMBIT. 
J4,   PxP. 

4^      2  P-C 

■ 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10          i 

8 

Q>^P Kt-Q]B3 

Et.KB3 

B-Kt5ch(13| 

A Q-K3 

Q-Qsq? 

Q-R4 

Q-B4 

B-Q2 

Kt-KB3 

Kt-B3 

B-B4 1     (8) 

Kt-B3    (12) 

Q-K2 

6 

P-K5       (1) 

B-Q3       (5) 

Kt-KB3  (9) 

B-Kt5 

B.Q3 

Kt-KKt5(2) 

P-Q4 

P-Q3 

B-K2 

Kt-QB3      ■ 

6 

Q-K4 
P-Q4       (8) 

PxP QxP      (6) 

B-QB4  (10) 
Kt-B3 

Kt-QB3 
P-Q3 

0-0 

BxB 

7 

PxPdisch B-K3 

Kt-KB3 
B-KKt5 

Kt-B3   (11) 
B-Q2  + 

Kt-B3 
B-K3 

QKtxB P-Q3      ■■" 

Q 

3-K2       (4) 
Kt-B3 

QKt-Q2 
0-0-0 

Kt-Q5 
BxKt B-Kt5 

B-Q2     (14) 

9 

PxP QxP 

0-0 
B-Kt5 

PxB Kt-K4 

BxKt BxB in Q-QR4 
B-QB4 

B-K2      (7) 
KR-Ksq   + 

KtxKt PxKt KtxP Kt-R8 

^  1 

Kt-QB3-0-0-0- 

Q-R5    — 

11 

0-0         - 

— 

0-0      - 

(G.  E.  E.) 

9  B-Q3, 

(Berger.) 

(1)  Or  6  B-K2,  Q-K2  combined with Kt-QKt5  and P-Q4.  5  B-B4  leads into Col.  11.  If  6  B-Q3,  Bch ;  6  P-QB3,  B-K4  followed by  0-0  and B-Ksq +.  Compare Ool.  3,  p.  31. 

(2)  6  . . ,  Kt-Q4  :    6  Q-K4,  Kt-KtS ;    7  Kt-KB3,  B-K2 ;    8  Kt-B3,  0-0 ; 
P.Kt3 ;     10  B-KB6,  R-Ksq ;     11  0-0-0,  P-Q3  =  , 

(3)  An invention of Prof.  Berger,  of Gratz. 

(4)  Or8B-QKt5,Q>cP-f-.    If  8  P x  P,  Q-QSch ;    9  K x  Q,  Kt x  Pch,  &c. 

(5)  If  6  Kt.QB3,  B-Kt5 ;    6  B-Q2,  0-0  ;    7  B.Q3,  P-Q4,  &c. 

(6)  Or  6  ..,  KtxPl.     After  6  ..,  QxP;    7  Q-B3  (C.  E.  R.)  may foUow. 

(7)  If  10  P-KB3,  P-K:R4.     (C.  E.  R.) 

(8)  4B-Kt6ch;  6P-B3I,B-B4;  6Kt-B3,P-Q3;  7  B-KKt5.  Kt-B3 1;  8  QKt-Q2, 
B-Q2;    9Q-B2,  P-KR3  =  . 

(9)  If  5  B-QB4,  Kt-B3. 

(10)  6  B-Qa is perhaps better.    If  6  B-QKt5,  B-Q2,  followed by P.QI13. 
Or  7  0-0,  B-Q2 ;     8  Q-Kt3,  0-0  or Kt-QR4. 
If  4  ..,P-QKt4;    6  QxKtP?,  R-Ktsq,  6  Q-Q3.     If4  ..,  P-Q4;     5  PxP, 

Kt.Kt5 ;  6  B-Q2,  Kt x  QP.  If  4  . . ,  P-Q3 ;  5  Kt-QB3,  P-KKt3  ;  6  B-Q2,  B-Kt2  ; 
7  P-B4,  Kt-B3;  8  Kt-B3  or  0-0-0,  B-K3  =  .  Move  4  Q-B4  was introduced by Mr.  J.  E.  Hall,  of Bradford. 

(13)  3  . .,  P-Q3  transposes into the Philidor Defence,  dnd Kt-QB3,  or B-B4,  into the Scotch Game.  If  3  ..,  Kt-KB3;  4  B-QB41  or P-K5I.  If  3  ..,  P.QB4; 
4  B-QB4>  P-QKt4 ;    5  B-Q5.    See Table  135,  note  2. 

(14)  If  8  .„  Q.B3;  9  P-K5,  PxP;  10  KtxKP,  KtJ£2  XI QKt-B3,  B.B4. 
^Praser.) 

I MISCELLANEOUa GAMBITS. 

Table  185— THE CENTRE GAMBIT. 

B 

6 

10 

11 

12 

18 

I P.K4.  P.K4;     2  P-Q4,   P x  P. 

11 

B-QB4    (1) 

Kt-KBS  (2) 

QxP      (3) 

Kt-B3 

Q-K3 

B-Kt5ch P-B3 

Kt-B3  (dia.) 

B-Kt3 

Q-B4 

0-0 

0-0 

P-Q3 

B-K3 

BxB QxB Kt-KKtS Q-B4       -^ 

KKt-K4  — 

12 

0-0 
0-0 

R-Ksq Kt-Kt5 

P-Q4 
R-QBq_ 
P^E^RS BxP KxB RxQ 

(4) 

PxKt     (5) 
BxPch 

18 

B^KtSch P-B3 
PxP PxP      (6) 

Q-B3 
Q-Kt3 

(7) 

B-B4 
Kt-B8 

P-Q3 
0-0 

Kt-B3 
Kt-R8      — 
B-Kt3 
orQ2  — 

14 

B-B4 

BxPob KxB Q-R5ch P-KKt3 

QxB Kt-QB3I(8) 

Et-K2     (9) 

FQ3 

Q-B4ch B-K3 

Q:Q3 

(10) 

P7Q4 
PxP 

(IL) 

QxP Q-KKt3(12) 

R-QBsq B-B4 

EFKtS Kt-R3l Iff 

03) 

Kt-KB3(dia) 
Kt-B3 
B-Kt5 
R-Ksq QKt-Q2 
FQ3 
Q-B4ch FQ4         " 
Q-Kt3   (14) 
K.Kt2-f    ~ 
(16) 

KtxR+ 

Kt-KB3  or P-Q64- 

(1)  If  3  P-KS,  Kt-QB3  ;    4  P-KB4,  B-B4 ;    6  K:t-KB3,  P-Q3  ;    6  B-Q3,  Kt-R3 ; 

7  0-6,  Kt-B4;     8  Q-K2,  Kt.K6+.      If  3  P-KB4,  B-B4  ;     4  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3 ; 
6  P-QR3,  P-QR4;    6  B-Q?,  Kt-KB3  ;    7  P^KR3,  P-Q4+. 

(2)  If  3  ..,  P-QB4;  4  P-QB3  (a),  Kt-QB3 ;  5  Kt-BS,  Q-B3  (6);  6  0-0, 
P-g3;  7PxP,  PxP;  8  B-QKt5,  B-Q2.  (Praxis.)  3  ..,  Kt-QB3  resolves into the Scotcli Game,  and  3  . . ,  P-Q3  into a  form of the Philidor Defence,  where Whit© 
may continue with  4  Kt-KB3.    (p.  40,  Note  7.) 

(a)  4  Kt-KB3,  P-Q3 ;    5  0-0,  Kt-QB3  ;    6  P-QB3,  P-Q6  ;    7  R-Ksq,  B-Kt5  ; 

8  P-KS,  KtxP  ;    9  KtxKt,  BxQ  ;    10  B-QKt5ch,  K-K2  ;    11  B-Kt5ch.  P-B3  ; 
12  Kt-Kt6di8ch,  K-B2 ;    13  Kt x  R mate.    (Potter v.  Matthews.) 

B-Kt P-KB4  1  (PxP is inferior);     6  Q-Kt3.  Kt-B4 ;    7  5-B.7cU,  K-K3; 

(3)  For  4  P.K5  find  4  Kt-KBS,  see.TabjQ  75,  Cojs.  i-i. 

^40  MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS. 

I g)  Mr.  Baoken,  who supplies this CoL,  notes that Black may also play  9  .., 
Kt'K4. 

(6)  Or.  11  . . ,  Kt X  B ;    12  R x  Kt,  Q^K2,  &o. :   preferred by Mr.  Wayte. 

<6)  If  6  BxPch,  KxB;     6  Q-Kt3cli,  P-Q4;     7  QxB.,  PxKtP;     8  BxP, 
Kt-KBS;    9  P-K5,  R.Ksq+. 

7  Q'Kt3,  P.Q4  I ;    a BxP»  B-KS  ;    9  BxB,  PxB; 

CI)  If  6PxB,  QxR; 
lOQxPch,  Kt.K2,&i^. 

(8)  See Diagram.    6  ♦ ».,  P-Q4  is inferior, 

Y9)  If  7  B-Kt5,  Kt.B3 ;    8Kt-Q2,  P-Q3;    9  Q.B4ch,  B-KS ;    lO Q.R4,  P-QJ13 : 
U KKt.BS,  P-Kt4  ;    12  Q-E3,  Q.Q2,  &q. 

(10)  If9Q-R4,Q.B3;    10  0-0  or Kt-Q2,  P-Q4,  &o.    (G.  E.  R.) 

(ll).IflOKtxP.PxP;    llKtxBorKt,PxQ;    12KtxQob,  RxKt+, 

(12)  U Kt-B4  is met by Q-B5. 

(13)  If  8  P-K5,  P-Q3 ;    9  P x  P,  R-Ksqcb,  &o. :    or if  8  0-0,  P.Q3 ;    9  Q-Bieftl, 
P-Q4. 

(14)  If  11  B X  Kt»  K X  B ;    or if  11  Q-Q3,  then B.B4. 

(16)  If  11  ..,  KtxP;    ISBxQ,  Kt.B4disQh;    13  K-Qsq,  Kt x Q J    UKtxS^^ 
BxB;    16KKtxP» 

(Col.  11.) 

M t  ill t  ■  t lii i 

r^i iifter White'a  7tli move. 

(Col.  \^.) 

^ai After  .Black's  6th move. 

I H 

MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS. 

241  • 

SECTION IV. 

Table  186.— THE DANISH GAMBIT, 

1  P.K4,  P.K4;    2  P.Q4,  PxP;    3  P.QB3(1). 

1  8  8  4  6 

PxP 

(2) 

4 

B-QB4 
Kt-KB3 

PxP      (6) 

KtxP P.K5 

QBxP 

5 

B-Kt5 

P.Q4 

Kt-KB3 

6 

Kt-K2 

(3) 

KtxP     (6) 

Kt-QB8 

P-K5       (9) 

0-0 

PxB B-Kt5     (7) 

B.Kt5ch 

7 

P-K5 

QxQch Kt-K2 

K-Bsq  (10) 

P'04+ 

(4) 

KxQ KtxP     (8) 

P.Q4 

.A PxKt 

0-0 

PxKt Q-R4cli(ll) 

1 

PxP KtxKt PxB KKt-Q2 

w 

9 

B-B4 

KtxKt Q-R4ch BxP B.KB4 

BxKt Kt-B3 

Q.K2 

m  /V 

0-0-Och BxB PxP P.K6 

10 

B-Q6+ 

Q-Kt4 

R-KKtsq PxP 

11 

R-Ksqch-f Kt-QB3 

Kt-QB3 

BxKt+ 

0-0 

12 

R-Ksq Kt-KtS 

18 

Q.B2 

KtxB+ 

(1)  This constitutes the Danish or Scandinavian Gambit. 

(2)  If  3  . . ,  P-Q4,  or Q-K2  ;    4  Q x  P equalises the game. 

(3)  If  6BxPch,KxB;    7  Q-Kt3ch,  P.Q4  ;    8QxB,  KtxP+ 

(4)  The Handbuch gives  7    ..,  Kt-KS  ;     8  0-0,  KtxKt;     9  PxKt,  B-B4; 
10  Kt-Kt3,  to which Black's reply is Q-I15,  or P-Q3.    (Gossip.) 

(5)  If  6  B.Kt3,  Kt-Kt5,  or P-B7. 

(6)  Or  4  . . ,  P.B7 ;    5  Q x  P,  Bch,  &c.    {A.  S.) 

^  (7)  Or  6  ..,  Kt-B3;     7  Kt-B3,  B-Kt5 ;    8  Q-B2,  P.Q3;    9  0-0-0,  BxKt!; 
aOQxB!,  B-K8;    11  KR-Ksq.    {Handbuch.) 

(8)  If  7  . .,  Kt-B3 ;  8  0-0,  P-Q3 ;    9  Kt-KtS,  &o. 

(9)  If  6  Kt-KB3,  B-Kt5ch  ;    7  K-Bsq. 

(10)  If  7  Kt-QB3,  Q-K2;     8  Kt-K2,  Kt-KS ;     9  0-0,  KtxKt;    10  KtxKt, 
BxKt;    U BxB,  0-0  +  . 

(11)  8  B-Kt3  and B-KtSoh are also in Black's favour. 

243  MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS. 

Table  187.— THE FEOM GAMBIT. 

?-KB4,  P-K4;    2PxP,  P-Q3:    8PxP.  BxP; 

4  Kt.EB8. 

12  8  4                    5 

Kt-KR8  (1)  Kt-KB8 

P^Q4       (2)    P-Q3  P-KK1>8  P-Q4 

Kt-Kt5            Kt-Kt0  Kt-Kt6  Kt-B3 

B-Kt5             P-B3  B-Kt5  P-Q8  BKt5 

P-KB3            Kt-QB3  (5)  P-KB3  KtxP B-KKt5 

B-B4               Q-B4  B-Bsq KtxKt P-K3 

P-KKt4           0-0  P-QB3  BxPch Q-Q2 

P-KB8  i  (3)     B-Kt5  P-KKt3  K-Q2  BxKt Kt-KB P-KB3  Q-B2  Q-R5  iPxB Q-Q8               B-Q2  B-R3  P-K3  B-Kt5 

B-B5               R-Ksq KtxP     (6)    P-KR4    (8)    0-0-0 

P-KKt4           P-K4  RxKt Q-B3  P-Q5 

Kt-B3     (4)    P-B4  BxPch Kt-B3  Q-K2      (9) 

P-B3  B-Kt5  K-Bsq P-Q4 

^^     Kt-K2  B-K2  BxR R-R3 

B-B2  BxB B>^B Kt-QB3 

QKt-Q4  QxB P-B4  QKt-Q2 

Kt-QKt6  -f Kt-K6  + 

12 

13 

QKt-Q4  QxB QxB B-K3 

P-B4  QKt-Q2  KtxB     (7)    Q-Kt2+ 

1 

(1)  For transpositions see introduction p.  220.    Wormald gives  4  . . ,  P-KKt4         ■ 

5  P-Q3.    This defence is approved by Mason.    {B.  C.  M.,  1892,  p.  438.)  ■ 

(2).  Or  5  P-K3  ?,  Kt-Kt5 ;    6  P-KKt3 1,  Kt x  BP  ;    7  R x  Kt,  B x  Pch ;  8  R-B2,       ■ 
B-Kt5  ;    9  B-K2,  Kt.B3,  &c.    The Col.  i^  Soereusea v.  From.     If  5  P-K4  ?,  Kt-Kt5 

6  Q-K2,  Kt-QB3  ;    7  P-Q4,  BxP;    8  Kt x  B,  Q-R6ch + . 

(3)  If  8B-B2,KtxB;    9KxKt,  P-Kt6;    10  Kt-Ksq,  BxP  (C.  M.)  or P-KB4 
{Handhuch), 

(4)  10  ..,  PxB?;    11  Q-K4ch,  Q-K2;    12  QxB,  KtxPch;    13  K-Qsq,  KtxR. 

(5)  Or  6  ..,0-0.    116  ...KtorBxP;    7  Q-R4ch and  8  Q-K4ch. 

(6)  Or  9  ..,  BxPch;    10PxB»QxPch;    11  K-Q2,  Kt-B7  ;    12  Q-Ksq,  BxB 
13RxB,Kt-K5ch,  &c. 

(7)  13  . .,  Q-B6ch  ;  14  K-Ktsq,  Q-Kt6ch  ;   15  K-Rsq,  Kt-Q2:  advantage doubtful. 

(8)  If  9  ..,  Kt-B3;     10  B-Kt2,  (if)  fexKt;    11  BxKtch,  PxB;    12  Q.K2-f. 
^J.  E.  B.) 

(9)  Continued  11  BxKt,  Qx Pch;  12  Q-K2,  Q-B8ch ;  13  Q-Qsq,  QR-Ksqch, 
14  BxB,  BxBch;  15  K-B2.  Q-K6ch:  16  K-Bsq,  BxKt;  17  PxB,  B-B* 
IQ K-Kt2,  B-Ktsqch-f .    (Bird v.  gteioitz.} 

MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS.  .243 

■     1   P.Q4.  P-Q4;     2P-K4,  PxP;     8  P-KBS.  PxP(l); 
K  4  KtxP. 

^  1  2  8  4  5 

10 
11 

SECTION VI. 

Table  138. -THE BLACKMAR GAMBIT.* 

P-K3  B-B4  WKtB g     Bj;Q3  P-B3  P-B3  B-QB4 

Kt-KB3  P-K3  P-QB3  (5)    P-KS P-B3  B-QB4  BK2  B-Q3  0-0 

P-QKt3  (2)  B-K2  (3)    P-K4  ?  P-K3  Kt-KB3 

B-K3  0-0  KtxP  0-0  Kt-B3 

B-Kt2  Kt-KB3  BxKt Kt-B3  WQd QKt-Q2  QKt-Q2.  RxB QKt-Q2  B-K3 

QKt-Q2!         P-B3  Q-R5ch B-Q3  QKt-Q2 

Q-K2  Kt-K5+(4)    P-KKt3  Q-Ksq Q.K2 

B-Q3  Q-K5  BxKt     (6)    P-B3+   (7) 

0-0-0  0-0  KtxB Q-K2-1-  QxR QKt-Q2 

Q-Kt3  +  BK3 

Q-K2    +    ■ 

(1)  Or  3  . ..  P,K3  or  4  I    (Maurian.)    After  3  Kt-QB3,  P.KB4  t 

(2)  If  6  . . ,  B.Q3  ;    7  0-0,  Kt-B3  (or QKt-Q2,  thence to Bsq and Kt3.    C.  E.  R.) ; 

8  QKt-Q2,  0-0  (P-KRSI);  9  Kt-Kt5,  P-KR3 ;  lORxKt,  (if)PxR;  11  Kt-R7, 
R-KsqorP.B4;  12  Q-R5  with a  strong attack  :  if  10..,  QxR;  11  QKt-K4,  Q-K2; 
12Q-R5,  B-Q2;  13  Kt-R7,  K x  Kt ;  14  Kt-B6ch,  &c.  :  iflO..,PxKt;  11  Q-R5  +  . 
A game Blackburne v.  Farrar runs  :  6  . . ,  B-K2  ;  7  0-0,  Kt-B3  ;  8  QKt-Q2, 
P-KR3;  9  Kt-K4,  0-0  ?  ;  10  KKt-Kt5,  PxKt ;  11  KtxP,  B.Q2  ;  12  RxKt, 
B X  R ;    13  Q-R5,  R-Ksq ;    14  B-R7ch and mates next move. 

(3)  Or  6  ...  B-Q3  and Kt-Q2  I    (C.  E.  R.) 

(4)  Threatening RxB:    9  Kt-Kt5  may also be played.    The Col.  is continued 

9  ..,  B-Kt3;  10  QKt-B3,  QKt-Q2  :  11  Q-K2,  B-R4  ;  12  Q-Ksq,  BxKt; 
13  KtxKBPI     (Blackmar v.  Atkinson.) 

(5)  5  . .,  P-K4  ;   6  Q-R4ch,  B-Q2  ;    7  Q-Kt3,  P-K5 ;   8  Kt-KtS,  Q-B3 ;   9  B-QB4. 
Kt.KR3;    10  R-Bsq-}-.    (Blackmar v.  Labatt.) 

(6)  Or  9  ..,QKt.Q2l    (C.  E.  R.) 

(7)  Another game runs  9  . . ,  Kt-Kt3 ;    10  B-Kt3,  P-BS ;.   11  B-B2.  Q.B2,  &c. 

>244  MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS. 

SECTION VI I 

Table  189.— THE CENTRE COUNTER GAMBIT. 
1  P.K4,  P.Q4. 

12  8  4  5 

PxP 

6 

QxP Kt-KB3 

Kt-QB3  (1)  ___^_^  P-Q4!     (9) 

Q-Qsq Q-QR4  Q-K4ch  (8)    KtxP  (10) 

P-Q4  P-Q4       (3)  B-K2  P-QB4 

Kt.KB3  Kt-KB3  (4)  P-K4  P-QB3  Kt-KB3 

B-K3  B-Q3  PxP      (6)    Kt-B3  Kt-QB3 

Kt.B3     (2)  KFB3  QxPch Q-B2  B-B4 

'B-QKt5  KKt-K2  B-K2  P-Q4+  Kt-BS 

®     B^  B-Kt5     (5)  B-QKt5  (7)    Kt-B3  FKS Kt-B3  P-B3  B-K3 

^     P-K3  B-R4  B-QKtS 

0-0  0-0  Q-R4ch ! 

^     B-Q3  P-K3  Kt-B3 

Q.K2   —  B-K3   —  Kt-K5 

^     0-0     —  B-Kt3  —  0-0       (11) 

(1)  If  3  P-Q4,  Q.K5ch ;  4  B.K3,  B.B4  (if P-K4 ,  5  Kt.Q2) ;  5  Kt-QB3,  QxBP; 
6QxQ,  BxQ;    7R-Bsq,  B-B4;    8Kt.Q5,&c. 

(2)  Or5  ..,P.K3;    6  Kt-B3,  B.Kt5  ;    7  B-KKt5.    Or6..,B-B4.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(3)  U  4  Kt-B3,  P-K4  ?  (B-Kt5 ;    5  P-Q4,  P-QB3,  &c.) ;    6  B.Kt5ch  (a),  P-B3  (b) 
6B-B4orK2,B-K:B4;    7  0-0,  Kt-Q2  ;    8  R-Ksq,  P-B3  ;    9Kt-KR4+. 

(a)  6  B-B4,  Kt-QB3  ;    6  0-0,  B-K2 ;    7  R- Ksq,  Kt-KB3 ;    8  P-Q4,  PxP.  (W.  W.) 

(b)  6  . .,  B-Q2  ;    6  Q.K2,  P-KBS  ;    7  0-0,  B-Q3  ;    P-Q4-f .     (C M.) 

(4)  Or  4  . . ,  P-QB3  ;  6  Kt-B3  (if B-Q2,  Q-B2),  B-Kt5  ;  6  B.Q3,  Kt.Q2  or P-KS, 
&c.    Or  4  . . ,  P-KKt3  ;    6  B-KS,  B-Kt2 ;    6  Q-Q2-1- .    (Potter.) 

(6)  Or  6  ..,P-K4I     (C.  E.  R.) 

(6)  Or6Q-K2.    (G.  E.  R.) 

(7)  7  B.Q2  is White's best.  (W.  W.)  Morphy played  7  Kt-KB3,  sacrificing a 
Pawn for the sake of development. 

(8)  3  .«,  Q-Q3  is suggested by Mr.  Potter to help forward Black's K  Pawn. 

(9)  Superseding  3  B-Kt5  ch,  which attracted much attention when introduced in 
1846. 

(10)  Or  3  ...QxPI    (0.  E.  R.) 

(11)  Continued,  10  Kt x  Kt.  B x  Ktch  ;  11  P x  B,  P x  Kt ;  12  Q x  BP,  Kt-K5 
(if B>K5 ;  13  Q-B5)  ;  13  E-Bsq,  R-Ktsq  ;  14  Q^R4,  Q-KS  ;  15  B-K2,  R-Kt7  ; 
16  B.B3+.    (C.  M.) 

I MISCELLANEOUS GAMBITS. 

245< 

11 

12 

Table  140.— THE QUEEN'S GAMBIT.. 
1   P.Q4,  P.Q4  ;      2    P.QB4,   P x  P sn 

(2) 

1 

P.-K3 
P-K4! 
BxP! 
PxP PxP Kt-KB3  (3) 
Kt-KB3  (4) 
B-Q3 ! 
0-0 
0-0 

P-KR3    (5) 
P-KR3 
Kt-B3 
Kt-B3 
B-K3  — 
Kt-K2— (6) 

(7) 

(8) 

2 

P-K4 

P-K4! 

P-Q5 

P-KB4 ! 

BxP Kt-KB3 

Kt-QB3 

B-Q3 

Kt-B3 

PxP Kt-KKt5 

B-KB4 

Q-R4ch QKt-Q2 

Kt-K6 

Q-K2 

0-0 

P-QR3 

B-KKt5   »- 

R-QBsq   — 

Kt-KB3  !(9) 

P-K3 

P-K3 

Kt-KB3 

BxP B-K2 

Kt-B3 

0-0 

0-0 

P-QKt3!(10) 

P-K4    — 

B-Kt2  — 

Kt-KB3 

P-K3 

B-Kt5 

BxP P-K3 

Kt-B3 

P-QR3 
0-0 

B-K2 
Q-K2 

0-0 
R-Qsq 

(11)- 

5 

Kt-QB3 
Kt.KB3 
P-K3     (12) 
P-K4 
BxP PxP  — 
B-Q3   — 

Kt-B3 
P-QKt3 
Kt^Qi B-Kt2  — 

QxQ; 
(5) 

(1>  If3Qch,P-B3;    4  QxP  (B4),  P-K4;    5PxP,Qch;    6  B or Kt in,  QxP  =  . 

(2)  If3  ..,P-QKt4;    4  P-QR4,  B-Q21;    5PxP,BxP;    6P-QKt3orKt-QB3+. 

(3)  Or5  ..,  B-Q3I     (Handbuch.) 
Or6Q-Kt3(orKt-QB3),Q.K2ch;    7  Kt.K2  (orB-K31),Q.Kt5ch;    8QKt-B3, 

9BxQ,  B-K2  =  . 
B-KKt5  would be premature before Kt-QB3.     If now  8  B.KKt5,  P-KB3  ; 
9  B-K3 !     (Potter.) 

(6)  11  Kt-Ksq,   P-B3;     12  P-KKt4!,  QKt-Q4;     13  Q.B3.  B-K3.     (Potter v. 
De Vpre.) 

(7)  I{4PxP,  QxQch;    5KxQ,  Kt-Q2;    6  P-B4,  Kt-B4;    7  Kt-QB3,  P-QB3: 
8  KB X  P,  P-QKt4  ;    9  B-Kt3, .  P-Kt5  ;     10  Kt moves,  Kt x  P,  &c. 

(8)  If  6  ..,  PxP;     7  KKt-K2,  and the KP is recovered shortly:     7   EtxP, 
Kt X  Kt ;    8  Q-R5  is unsound.    (Synopsis. J The Col.  is Owen v.  Boden. 

(9)  Blackburne's variation. 

(10)  If7..,QKt-Q2;     8  P-K4. 

(11)  11  . . ,  B-B3 ;     12  Kt-K4,  B-K2.     (Blackbume v.  Clerc.) 

(12)  If4P-K4,  P-K4;     5PxP?,  QxQch;    6KtxQ,  KtxP;     7  BxP,  Bch: 
8  K-K2,  Kt-QB3+ .    See the Queen's Pawn Game for  2  . . .  P-K3,  &c. 

246^ 

OHESS OPENINGS. 

BOOK Y. 

THE CLOSE GAMIL THE Close Game comprises openings in which the centre of the hoard is occupied by*the Pawns,  while the minor pieces  (with the exception of the King's Enight)  are posted in the rear,  to act as supports or for defensive purposes.  The King's Pawn is usually advanced one square only.  This may be done on the first move,  as in the Van  't Kruys Opening and the French Defence,  or postponed for a  move or two,  as in the English Opening and the Sicilian Defence.  Mr.  Zukertort frequently commenced with  1  Kt-KB3,  but this is only a  transposition,  the following move bejng either P-K8  or P-Q4.  Placed at K8  the Pawn is for some time a. strong defiance to the King after castling with King's Eook.  The action'  gf the adversary's King's Bishop at QB4  is blocked,  and his Queen's Bishop becomes a  more serviceable piece for attacking purposes, 
especially when planted on the long diagonal at QKt2  or QB3. 

There is considerable Hberty of action with regard to the order in 
\irhich the first eight or ten moves are made on both sides.  In the Queen's Pawn game the simplest course is for both parties to make siiailiar moves as far as circumstances allow,  but either player may vary to tempt a  premature attack,  or exchange It is one of the points of this game that the pieces may be moved about repeatedly in the opening,  in order to group the Pawns favourably.  There are two main Hues of iadVance.  One is on the Queen's side,  the QB Pawn and Q  Pawn leading ; 
the Other on the King's side with the KB Pawn.  The advance on the Queen's side although less direct is the most eff'ective,  and is sanctioned by the practice of the leading players.  That on the King's side may generally be repelled with advantage.  Hence it is customary to castle early in the game. 

The French and Sicilian Defences may be converted into open games by an early exchange of Pawns,  but experience has showQ that the first player derives no benefit from this mode of proceedirig. 

THE CLOSE GAME.  247- 

SUMMARY OF THE SECTIONS INTO WHICH BOOK V. 
IS DIVIDED. 

Section I*      The French Defence, 

1  P-K4  P.K3;   &c 

,j n.       The Sicilian Defence* 

1  P-K4.  P-QB4;  Ac. 

t^       ni.       The Queen's Pawn Game  (including the Queen's Gambit Declined) 

I P.Q4,   P-Q4,  P'KB4;  &c. 

t«         IV«      The English Opening. 

1   P-QB4,  P.K4,  P-KKtS,  P-KS,   P.KB4  ;  &c. 

M V.       l^he King's Bishop's Pawn Game, 

1   P-KB4,  P-K3.  P.Q4,  P-KB4 ;  &c. 

^        VL The Van    *t Kruy's Opening, 

1   P-K3»  P-K4,  P-KB4;  &c. 

TKb Fianchetto Openings, 

I P.QKtS,  P.K4,   P-KS;  &o, 
1   P-KKt3,   P.K4;  &c. 

^      VII.       The Fianchetto Defence, 

1   P.K4.  P-QKt3,   P-KKt3;   &c. 

„     Vni.       Unusual and Irregular Openings, 

248  THE CLOSE GAME. 

SECTION I 

THE FRENCH DEFENCE. 

1    P.K4,     P.K3. 

II THE French Defence dates from Lucena  (1497).  It has been much favoured of late years in matches and tournaments.  Mr.  Potter,  one of its chief exponents,  notes that  "  though the adoption of  1  ...,  P-K3 
does not entirely deprive White of the profit derived from playing first, 
yet it goes nearer than any.  other defence in placing the players on equality at starting."  In the resulting positions this opening has much in common with the Petroff Counter Attack and the Sicilian Defence, 
both of which it has to a  great extent superseded in general practice.  In some variations it gains a  move on the former,  and avoids certain minute disadvantages in the latter.  A notable feature is the marked augmenta-« 
tion of the power of the Bishops with its corollary in a  sensible diminu- 
tion of scope on the part of the Knights.  The tendency at the present time is to treat it as a  variation of the Queen's Pawn Game,  in which the first player gains nothing by advancing his King's Pawn two squares before his game is fully formed.  Black's advance,  when the centre is blocked,  is with the QB Pawn,  and the battle may be fought out on the Queen's wing.  Or the first player may avail himself of his opponent's Q  Bishop being shut out of the play to establish an attack on the King's side.     This line of play has been strengthened since our first edition.         « 

The Sicilian Defence is first mentioned in Polerio's MS.  It should be studied along with the French.  It had at one time the reputation of being the best reply to  1  P-K4,  but this has not been confirmed by popular practice.  Several eminent players have,  however,  held to the opinion that it is quite trustworthy. 

I Table  141.— THE FRENCH DEFENCE, 

10 
11 
12 
13 

P.K4,    P.K3;      2   P-Q4,    P-Q4;      8   P x  P,    P X  P; 
4  Kt-KBS  (1),  Kt-KBS  (2);     5  B-QS  (8),    B-QS. 

1  i  8  4  5 

0-0  gt-BB OO B-KKt5 

Kt-B3     (4)  B-K3     (10) 

FBS B-K3  EFB3  Kt-B3 

Kt-K2  R-Ksq B-KKt5  Q-Q2 

q:B2         ^     B-KKt5           Kt-B3  B-KKt5  (8)    0-0 
Kt-Kt3             Kt-Kt3            Kt-QKt5  K-Rsq     (9)    P-KR3 
KKS      (6)     Kt-R4      (6)    P-QR3    (7)  B-K2  B-K3 
P-QKt3           P-KR3            KtxB Q-Q2       —    P-R3 
QKt-Q2           KtxKt QxKt Q.Q2       —    P-QR3 
P.B4    —        PxKt Kt-K5                                   00         — 
IT-     b:R4               Kt-K2                                    Efl2      ^ 

P-KKt4   —    B-KKt5 

B-Kt3      —    Kt-Kt3 

Q-Q2       — 

QR-Ksq  — 

(1)  If  4  P-QB4,  Kt.KB3;    6  Kt.QB3,  B-QKt5;    6  P-QR3,  &c. :    if  6  B-QS, 

Q-K2ch. 

(2)  If  4  . . .  P.QB4 ;    5  Bch,  Kt-QB3  :    6  P-B4.    (Lange) :    or  6  0-0,  &c. 

(3)  5  B-K3,  B-Q3;  6  Kt-Q2,  B-K3  ;  7  R-Bsq,  Kt-B3 ;  8  P-KRS,  K^K2; 
9  P-B4,  P-B3  ;  10  B-Q3,  0-0  ;  11  0-0,  P-KR3  ;  12  R-Ksq,  Kt-Q2,  &c.  (Paulsen V.  Schwede.)    Or  5  . .,  B-K2  ;    6  Kt-K5,  Kt-B3.    (Tschigoriu v.  Gunsberg.) 

(4)  Or  7  P-QB4  to open the QB file for his Rooks  :  Black may also reply to 
7  Kt-B3  with P-QB4.    Steinitz introduced here  7  P-QKt3. 

(5)  Or  9  . . ,  Kt-Kt5  ;  10  P-B3,  P-KKt3.  (Potter.)  .  The Col.  is Zukertort v.  Sell* 
man  ;    White may continue by  10  R-Ksq Kt-Bsq and P-KR3  :    or by  10  B.K3. 

(6)  Or  9  ..,  Q-B2;  10  P-KR3,  B x P  (B x QKt ;  11  PxKB) ;  11  PxB,  BxKt; 
12  P X  B,  Q X  Pch ;    13  K-Rsq,  Q x  Pch  ;    14  Kfc-R2,  Kt.K5,  &c.    (Potter.) 

(7)  Or  9  . . ,  B.K2  first !    (C.  E.  R.) 

(8)  If8..,B-K2;    9  R-Ksq,  P-KRS  ;    10  B-R4  I    {A.  S.) 

(9)  If  9  BxKt.  PxB;  10  KtxP.  BxPch»  &c. :  or9..,QxB;  10  KtxP, 
Q-R3  +  . 

(10)  7  0-0.  0-0 ;  8  P-KR3,  B-R4 ;  9  P-KKt4,  B.Kt3 ;  10  P-Kt5.  Kt.B4 ; 
UKtxP,  P-QB3;    12  Kt-B3,  Kt.Q2;    13  Kt-K4  I    (Weiss v.  Schwarz.) 

8 

•550 

THE CLOSE CAME. 

Table  142.— THE FBENCH DEFENCE. 

1  P.K4,  P.K3;     2  P.Q4,  P.Q4. 

6 

7 

8 

9 

^^          % 

8 

Kt-QBS Kt-KB3 

d 

4 

B-KKtS  (1) 

P.K5 

m B-K2 

KKt-Q2     ■ 

m 

5 

P.K5 
KKt-Q2 

BxKt BxB P-B4 
P-QB4 

QKt-K2(16 

P-QB4 

6 

BxB      (2) 
QxB Kt-B3 
0-0 

(7) 
(8) 

PxP BxP P-QB3 

KtxP  (14) 

Kt-QB3 

7 

Q-Q2      (3) 
P-QR3    (4) 

B-Q3       (9) 
P-QKt3(10) 

Q-Kt4  (dia.) 
P-KKt3(13) 

Kt-B3 
Kt-B3 

P-KB4  (17 

Q-Kt3 

8 

Kt-Qsq    (5) 
P-QB4 

P-KR4 
B-Kt2 

! 
(11) 

Kt-B3 
Kt.QB3 

B-K2 
Q-Kt3 

Kt-B3 

B-K2 

9 

P.QB3 
Kt.QB3 

P-K5 
B-K2 

P-QR8 
Kt-Kt3 

R-QKtsq Kt-Q2 

Kt-Kt3 

PxP 

10 

P.KB4 
P.QKt4 ! 

BxPch KxB B-Q3— 
B.Q2-. 

B-Q2 

(16) 

PxP B-Kt5ch 

11 

(6) 

Kt-Kt6ch K-Kt3  (12) 

K-B2 

P-B3+ 

(1)  If4B-Q3,  P-QB4!;  if then  6  KPxP,  KtxP I.  If  4  Kt-BS,  B-KtS ;  6B.Q31. 
(if)  Kt-B3 ;    6  B-KKt5  (Steinitz) :    or  4  P-B3,  B-KtS  ;    6  Q-Q3,  &o. 

(2)  If6B-K3,P.QB4;    7  P-B4,  Kt-QB3 ;    8  Kt.B3,  Q-Kt3+. 

(3)  Or  7  B-K2  (C.  E.  R.)  If  7  B-Q3,  P-QR3  to play P-QB4.  If  7  Kt.B3  or P.KB4,  P.QR3  and P.QB4.    Or  7  Kt-Kt5,  Q-Qsq  (C.  M.) 

(4)  Or  7  . . ,  0-0 1;  8  Kt-Qsq  (or K2)  or P-B4 :  if  8  Kt-Kt5,  Kt-Kt3.  Or  7  . ., 
Kt.QB3;    8  Kt-Kt5,  Kt-Kt3. 

(5)  To connect the Pawns and plant Kt on K3:    8  QKt-K2  or P-B4  may be played. 

(6)  11  Kt-B3,  P-B4  (or P-B3  to open the game on King's side) ;  12'  Kt-KS, 
Kt-Kt3;  13  B-Q3,  R-QKtsq.  (Winawer v.  Blackburne):  or Black may play 
10...  PxP;    llPxP,  Q-Kt5,  &c. 

(7)  Or  6  P.K5,  B.K2 ;    7  B.Q3,  P.QB4  ;    8  Q.Kt4  (Lee v.  Leather). 

(8)  6..,P-QB4l(Steimtz),  ore  ..,Kt-B3.  (C.  E.  R.)  If6..,P.QR3;  7  Q.Q2 
(Salvioli):  if  7  B-Q3,  P.B4;  8  PxBP  (or  8  P-K6,  PxP;  9  PxB.  PxKt,  &c.). 
BxKtch;  ,9PxB,  PxP;  10BxP,QxQ;  llRxQ,P.B4;  12  B.Q3,  Kt-Q2+ 
(Lasker).  " 

(9)  Or  7  Q.Q2  or P.KR4.    See Diagram. 

(10)"  If  7  . . ,  P-KR3 1;  8  P-KKt4,  &c.  If  7  . . ,  P-B4 ;  8  P-K5,  B-K2  ;  9  P x  P,  &c. 
If  7  ..,  Kt-B3  ?;  8  P-K6,  B.K2;  9  P-KR4,  Kt-KtS;  10  BxPch,  KxB; 
11  Kt-Kt5ch,  BxKt;  12  PxBdch,.  K-Ktsq;  13^Q.R5,  P-B3;  U P-Kt6  and wins  (Ward-Higgs v.  Moriau). 

(11)  Or8..,B.R3l 

(12)  12  Kt-K2,  B X  Kt ;  13  P x  B,  P-KB4 ;  14  KtP x  P e.p.,  B-Rsq ;  15  Kt-B4cli, 
K-B2;  16  Q-Kt4,  RxRch;  17  K-Q2,  PxP;  18  Q-Kt6ch,  K.K2;  19  Q-Kt7cli, 
K-Ksq ;  20  Q-KtSch,  K-K2 ;  21  Q x  Pch,  K-Bsq ;  '22  R x  R,  B-Bsq.  White mates in  4  moves.    (Fritz v.  Mason.) 

(13)  See Diagram.  7  .  r,  0-0 ;  8  B-Q3,  P-B4 ;  9  Q-R3,  Kt-QB3 ;  10  Kt.B3, 
R-Ksq.  (Blackbume v.  Bum.)  Mr.  Ranken prefers  8  ..,  R-Ksq followed by Kt-Bsq  (B.  C.  M.,  1892,  p.  77). 

(14)  K  6  . . ,  Kt-QB3 ;    7  P-QR3,  B x  P ;    8  Q-Kt4,  &c. 

(16)  To follow with Kt.QR4  and  0-0  (Schallopp v.  Tarrasoh). 

(16)  Or5Kt-KB3l 

(17)  Mr.  Reeves advocates  7  B-K3.    See B.C.M.,  1S92,  p.  209, 

i 

(Col.  7.) 

(Col.  8.) 

■  S4»^,.l m 

i fm J/^J..».g«^» 

SiH#l After White's  7th move. 

After White's  7th move. 

252 

THE CLOSE GAME. 

Table  143.— THE FRENCH DEFENCE. 

8 

9 

10 

1  P-K4,  P.K3:    2  PQ4,  P.Q4. 
11  12  13  14 

Kt-QB3 

B-Kt5 

PxP 

(1) 
(2) 

PxP Kt-B3  (3) 
BxKtch(4) 
PxB B-Kt6 
B-K2 

Kt-KB3 
B-R3  — 

PxP? 
KtxP Kt-KB3 

KtxKtch QxKt Kt-B3 

Kt-B3 

B-KKt5 

Q-B4 

B-Q3     — 

—  Q-B4ch 

(5) 

Kt-Q2 

Kt-KB3  (6) 
P-K5 
KKt-Q2 
B-Q3 

P-QB4 
P-QB3 

Kt-QB3 
Kt-K2 
Q-Kt3 
Kt-KB3 

P-B3 
PxP KtxP Q-Kt3 

B-Q3 

PxP BxP 

(7) 

Kt-KB3 
B-B3! 

P-B4 
Kt-K2 

Q-Kt3 

QKt-B3 

B-Q2 

Q-0 

PxP QxP 

(8) 

B-B4 
Q-Q3 

15 
P-K5 

P-QB4 
P-QB3 

(& 

Kt-QB3 
P-KB4  (10" 

Q-Kt3 
Kt-B3 

B-Q2 
B-K2 

Kt-R3 
0-0 

(11) 
(12> 

PxP PxP KtxQP KtxKt B.B3-Kt-B4  + 

(I)  Or  3  . . ,  B-K2  may now.be  -jDiayed. 

(2).  If  4  B.Q3,  P-QB4  I.    If  4"  F-'K'S,  Kt-K2 ;    5  B-QS,  P.QB4 ;    6  P x  P,  P.Q5 ; 
7  Q-Kt4,  B-E4  or QKt-B3.  .&c. 

(3)  Or  6  B-ji3Ja^la5^'Kt-K2. 

(4)  5  .  /,  Kf :KB3  ;    6  B-Q3,  Kt-B3 ! :    or  6  . . ,  Q-K2cli ;    7  B-KS,  KtJCS  (Potter) ; 
t6  ,.i  0-0 ;    7  0-0,  B X Kt ;    8  P x B, to follow with R-Ktsq and P.QB4"(Steinitz); 

(5)  If  8  . . ,  Q-Kt5 ;    9  P-KB3,.  Q x  KtP  ;    10  K-B2 + . 

(6)  If3  ..,P-QB4;    4QPxP,BxP;    6  PxP,  Por QxP=. 

(7)  3  ..,P-QB4;    4  P-QB3,  (if)  Kt.QB3;  .  6  Kt.K2,  Kt.B3;    6  P.K6,  Kt.Q2; 
7  0-0-1-. 

(8)  Or  9  Kt X  P,  Kt-B3  or B-Q3. 
.  (9)  4B-Kt5oh,Kt.QB3;    5BxKtch,PxB;   6P-QB3,  Q-Kt3;   7Kt-B3,B.B3+c 

(10)  Or6Kt-KB3,  Q-KtS;    6  B.Q3,  &o. 

(II)  Or7QR-Bsq. 
(12)  If  8P-QKt3,  PxP;    9  P x P,  Bch,  with a  good gajne. 

n THE CLOSE GAME. 

It L 

Table  144,— THI 
"                              1   P-1 

I FEEN( 

K3, 

DEFENCE. 

• 

1 

i4.  p.; 

f 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

2 

P-K5       (1) 

P-Q3 

P-KB4 

(6) 

P-Q4       (2) 

F-Q4 

P-Q4 

(7) 

f P  X P  en pas PxP Kt-Q2 

(4) 

PxP PxP P-K5 

BxP P-QB4 

P.QB4 

1 

4 

P-Q4 

P-Q4 

P-KB4 

Kt-KB3 

P.B3 

Kt-KB3 

Kt-KB3  (3; 

Kt-QB3 

P-QB4 

(8) 

Kt-QB3 

5 

P-KB4 

B-Q3 

Kt-KR3 

P-Q4 

Kt-B3 

P-Q4 

Kt-B3 

Kt.B3 

Kt-QB3 

P-B3 

6 

B-Q3 

P-B3 

Kt-B2 

P-B3 

Kt-R3 

Kt-B3 

P.QKt3 

B-K2 

Kt-B3 

Kt.R3 

7 

Kt-KB3 

B-KKt5 

P-B3 

B-K3 

Kt-B2 

B-Q3 

P-KK3 

0-0 

(5) 

Q-Kt3 

B.Q2 

8 

P-B3 

BxKt P-QKt3 

P-Q4 

Q-B2 

QxB B-Q2 

Q-Kt3 

9 

P-KKt3 

Kt-Q2 
B-Kt2 

B-Q3 

E-Bsq  + 

P-QKt3 

B.Q2 

R-Bsq 

10 

QKt-Q2  — 

Kt-K4  — 

B-Q3 

— 

— 

Kt.B2  "(9) 

(1)  Played by Steinitz,  but little favoured. 

(2)  If  2  ..,  P-Q3  the same continuation follows.  If  2  ..,  P-QB4;  3  P-KB4, 
Kt-QBS ;  4  Kt-KBS,  P-Q4  (0.  E.  R.),  or  4  . . ,  P.B3  (Zukertort).  Or  2  . . ,  P-OKtS, 
keeping Q  Pawn unmoved  (Blackburne).  If  2  ..,  P.KB3 ;  3  P-Q4,  P-QB4; 
4PxQBP,  BxP;    6  Kt-QB3,  Q-B2 1 ;    6  B-KB4  ?,  Q-Kt3 ;    7  Q.Q2,BxPch,&o.+. 

(Steinitz v.  Winawer.) 

(3)  4  ...  Kt-K2;  5  B-Q3,  Kt-Kt3;  6  Kt-KB3,  Kt-B3;  7  Ht-BS,  Kt-Kt5; 
8  B-QB4,  P-QB3 ;  9  Kt.K4,  B-B2 ;  10  0-0,  0-0;  11  R-Ksq,  Kt-Q4.  (Steinitz v. 
Flecbsig.y 

(4)  This Col.  is by Mr.  Fraser.  If  3  P-QBS,  P x P ;  4  Q-R4cli,  B-Q2 ;  SQxKP, 
B-Q3 ;  6  Q-K2:  or White may play P-QB3  on his second move:  or  8  Q-K2  or B-Q2  to avoid the exchange of Queens. 

(5)  White advances on King's side. 

(6)  If  2  P-QB4,  P-QB4 ;  3P-Q4,  PxP;  4  Q x  P,  Kt.QB3  and Black has gained a  move.  He may afterwards play P-KKt3  and B-Kt2  as by Staunton v.  Cochran© 
andHorwitz.    (W.  W.) 

(7)  2  . . ,  P-QB4  transposes into the Sicilian defence. 

(8)  4  ..,  B-Q3;  5  P-Q4,  Kt.KB3;  6  B-K2,  0-0;  7  0^0,  P-B^J  8  Kt-B3 
P.(gl3;    (if)  9  B.K3,  Kt-Kt5-|-. 

p)  11 9-K3.  P X  QP ;    12  P X  QP.  B.£t5oli«f . 

254 

THE CLOSE GAME. 

SECTION II. 

Table  145.— THE SICILIAN DEFENCE. 

1P.K4,  P.QB4;    2  Kt-QBS,  Kt-QBS;    3  Kt-B8.  P.K8(1); 
4  P-Q4(2),  PxP;    5  KtxP! 

12  8  4  0 

10 

11 

12 

18 

14 

P-QR3  ? 
B-K2! 
Kt-B3     (3) 
KtxKt  (4) 
KtPxKt P.K5 

Kt-Q4 
Kt.K4 

P.KB4    (6) 
P X  P gn paa EtxP B-KKt5 

B-K2      (6) 

BxKt BxB Kt-Q6ch K-K2 

Q-Q2+ 

Kt-B3(dia.) 

KKt-Kt5 

B.Kt5     (7) 

Kt-Q6ch  (8) 

E:K2 

B-KB4 

P-K4      (9) 

Kt-B5ch K-Bsq B-Q2!  (10) 

P.Q3 

Kt-Kt3 

B.K3 

B-Q3       -~ 

P-KR4!  — 

B-K2!  (11) 

PxP PxP B-KKt5 

B-K2 

00 

O^O B-B3 

B.K3 
R-Ksq Q-Q2 
Q-Q2 

QR-Qsq QR-Qsq KR.Ksq(12) 

B.Kt5  (13) 
KtxKt KtPxKt(14) 
Q-Q4 
B-Bsq ! 

B.KB4 
FB3 
B.Kt3  + 
Q-Kt3   (16) 

Kt.Kt5 

Kt.B8 

PQR8 

BxKtch KtxB OO B-K2 

FQ4 

PxP— 

PxP-(15) 

(1)  3  ..,P-KKt3;  4P-Q4,  PxP;  5  KtxP,  B-Kt2;  6  B-K3,  P.Q3  (Kt-KB3. 
Bird);  7  Kt.Q5  (Gunsberg),  or B-K2  or Q-Q2  (Ranken),  or B.QKt5  (Maokenzie), 
SeeDiaeram/  Or3  ..,Kt-KB3;  (if)  4  P-KS,  Kt.KKt5 ;  6  Q-K2,  Q-B2;  6  Kt.Q6 
or QKt5,  Q-Ktsq+  :  (or)  4  P-Q4 1,  PxP;  5  KfTxP,  P-Q3;  6  B.QKt5  or B-K2  or P.B4,  &c.    See also Col.  8,  note  7.    , 

(2)  If  4  B-Kt6,  KKt-K2.    (Potter.)    If  4  B-K2,  Kt.Q5.    4  B.B4  is inferior. 

(3)  Or  6  ..,  B-K2;    7  KtxKt,  QPxKt.    (Potter.)    Or  6  ..,  P.Q3.    If  6  ••• 

B-Kt5;    7Q-Q3orO-0 

(4)  Or7  0-0,B-K2;    8  KtxKt,  Ac. 

(5)  Or  9  . . ,  Q-B2 ;    10  P.KB4,  Q-Kt3,  &c.    (C»  E.  R,) 

(6)  11  ..,  Q-IUcb;     12  B.Q2,  Q.K4;     13  KtxKtch,  QxKt;     14  B-QB3+. 

^Marriott.) 

(7)  6  .  V P-Q3 ;    7  B.KB4,  P.K4 ;    8  B-KtS to i<lay P.B4.    (Bird.) 

(8)  Or  7  P-QR3  as i»  Col.  6. 

(9)  If  8  ...  Q-R4;     9  Q.Q2,  P.K4;    10  Kt.B4.  BxKt;    11  PxB,  Q.B2; 
lSIB.Kt5+.    (C.E.  R.) 

(10)  10B.KKt5,  P-Q4!    (or Q-R4);     11  PxP,  QxP,  <fec.     Tho Syijopsis gives 
10  B-Q2,  P-Q4 !   (Wayte.)    The Col.  is Zukertort v.  Schallopp. 

.  (11)  If  6  KtxKt,  KtPxKt;  7  P-K5!  Kt-Q4;  8  Kt-K4,  Q.B2;  9  P-KB4. 
Q-Kt3  !  (Ranken):  if  7  B-KKtS,  B-Kt5 ;  8  P.K5,  Q-R4;  9  Q.Q4,  Kt-KS; 
lOQxKt,  BxKtch,&c. 

(12)  14  KtxB,  PxKt;     15  Q-K2+.    The defence may possibly be improved, 
Mr.  Ranken'  suggests  6  . .,  B-KtS and the Handbitch  6  . .,  P-Q3. 

(13)  Mr.  Potter suggests  5  . . ,  <5-B2 ;    6  KKt-Kt5,  Q-Ktsq ;    7  B>K2»  P.QR3  «. 

(14)  If6...BxKtch;   7  PxB,  KtPxKt;   8Q-Q4:   or7..,QPxKt;   BB-KS, 
or Q-Q4,  or B-R3,  &c. 

(15)  Zukertort v.  Blackbume. 

(Col.  2.) 

igAH^B I 

\iMAm ill  2  i 

^^;g,  '='..^5 

^ 

^=^  ^^Jk^,.  ***  ^TT^ 

%W**i  .S"!. 

(Note  1.) 

After Black's  5th move. 

After Black's  6tb move. 

256 

THE CLOSE GAME. 

Table  146.-.THB SICELUN DEFENCE, 

6 

Kt-QB3 

P.K3 
Kt-B3 

(1) 

(2) 

Kt-KB3 
P-Q4 
PxP KtxP 

•B.Kt5 
B-Q3 

Kt-B3 
KKt.K2 

P.Q4 
PxP PxP 
00  — 

I P.K4,  P-QB4, 

8 

0-0  — 

P-KKt3  (8) 

Kt-QB3 

B-Kt2 

Kt.B3 

KKt-K2  (4) 

P.QRS P-Q4 

PxP KtxP Q-B2 

0-0 

B:K2 

B-K3  — 

0-0-Kt-KB3  (5> 

Kt.QB3 

P-Q4       (6) 

PxP KtxP Kt-B3 

KtxKt  (7) 

KtPxKt B-Q3 

P-Kt3     (8) 

P-QKt3 

B-KKt2 

B-Kt2 

0-0 

0-0 

P.Q4       (9) 

9 

P-K3     (10) 
Kt-KtS P.QR3 
Kt-Q6ch BxKt QxB Q-K2 
Q-Kt3  — 
P.B4-10 

P-K8! 
P-Q4 

PxP KtxP Kt-KB3!Hiy B-Q8     (12^ 

Kt-B3 ! 
B-K3    jlSJ P-Q4 
PxP PxP 
0-0 

B-Q3 
P-KR3 

P-KR3 

(I)  2  . . ,  Kt.QB3 ;    3  P-KKtS,  p.Q3 ;    4  B.Kt2,  P-K4,  &o. 
(2J If3B.B4,P.QR3;    4  P.QR4,  Kt.QB3 ;    6P.Q3,Kt-B3l 

(3)  Paulsen's variation. 

(4)  6P-Q3.B-K2;    6P-KB4»0.0;    7Kt-KR3,  P-Q4;    8Kt.B2.    (De Riviere.) 
(5>  This Col.  is Mason v.  Paulsen.    2  P-Q4  is a  transposition of moves.    Or White, 

ftfter  2  . . ,  P X  P,  may vary by  3  Q x  P.  Kt.QB3 ;    4  Q.K3  or Q-Qsq,  &o. 

<6)  Or3B-Kt5,P-K3;    4BxKt,KtPxB;    6  0-0,&c.    (Winawer v. Tsohigorin.) 

(7)  5Kt-QB3,P-Q3;    6B-QB4,P.K3;    7  0-0,B-K2;    8  B-K3.  0-0;    9  Q-K2. 
B-Q2 ;    10  QR-Qsq.    (Zukertort v.  Sellman.)    See Col.  1,  note  1. 

(8)  Or6..,P-K4l    (0.  E.  R.) 

(9)  10  PxP,  PxP;    llKt-Q2,B.Kt2=. 

(10)  Or  4  . . ,  P-KKtS ;    5  B-K3 ;  or  6  Kt x  Kt,  KtP x  Kt ;    6  Q.Q4.    See Col.  11, 

(II)  If  4  . . ,  B-B4 ;    5  Kt-QB3 !,  Q-Kt3 ;    6  Kt.R4,  &c. 

(12)  5  Kt-QB3,  B-Kt.5 ;     6  Kt.Kt5,  0-0 ;     7  B-KtS,  Kt-B3 ;     8  P-B4,  B-K2 
9Kt-Q6,  P-QR3;    10  P-K5,  Kt-Ksq ;    llBxB,QxB;     12  QKt-K4,  P.B4 ;     13  Px! 
en pas,  KtxP;    14  Kt x  Kt,  Q x  Kt  (B6) + .    (Mayet v.  Hirschfeld.)    If  15  Kt x  B,| 
QxBP. 

(13)  6  Kt X  Kt,  KtP X  Kt ;    7  0-0,  P-Q4 ;    8  p.K5,  Kt.Q2 ;    9  P.XB4,  B-Bich  ;l 
10  K-Bs^  0*0|  &o.    (MacdoimdU v.  Bardeleben.} 

THE CLOSE GAME. 

2o7' 

L 

^^       Tabi^  147.— the 
^^                        1   P-1 

i STCIL] 

[AN DEFENCE. 
QB4 

1 

{4,  P. 

P 

^11 

Ifi 

13 

14 

16 

F 

2 

Kt-KB3 

P-KB4 

B-B4 

P-KKt3 

P-QKt3(10) 

P-KKt3  ' 

P.K3       (o) 

P-QR3 

(B) 

Kt-QB3  (9) 

Kt-QB3 

3 

P-Q4       (1) 

Kt-KB3 

P-QR4 

B-Kt2 

B-Kt2 

PxP PQ4       (6) 

P.K3 

P-K4 

P-QR3 

4 

KtxP     (2) 

PxP       (7) 

Kt-QB3 

Kt-K2 

P-QR4 

B-Kt2 

PxP Kt-K2 

P-Q3 

P-K3 

5 

B-K3 
Kt-QB3  (3) 

B-Kt5ch B-Q2 

P-Q4 
P-Q4 

0-0 

Kt-KB3 

Kt-B3 

P-Q3 

6 

Kt-QB3  (4) 

BxBcb PxQP P-QB3 

Kt-B3 

Kt-B3 

KtxB KPxP Q-B2 

Kt-B3 

7 

B-K2 

0-0 

B-K2 

P-Q4 

B-K2 

P-Q3 

B-Q3 

PxP B-Q2 

B-K2 

8 

0-0      — 

Kt-B3 

QxP Kt-R3 

0-0  — 

P-QR3— 

Kt-K2 

Kt-QB3  + 

P-QR3 

0-0- 

9 

p Q3  or  4— 

(1)  Or  3  Kt-B3,  B-Kt2  ;  4  B-B4,  Kt-KB3?;  5  P-K5,  Kt-Ktsq  (if Kt-Kt5; 
6  B X  Pch,  &c.)    The Col.  is Wisker v.  Potter. 

(2)  If4QxP,  Kt-KB3;    5P.K5,  Kt-B3;    6Q-QB4,P.Q4I 

(3)  Or  5  . . ,  P.QR3,  then P.K3,  and Kt.K2  :  or  5  . . ,  P-Kt3,  and B-Kt2.  {C.P.  C) 

(4)  6  P-QB3,  Kt.B3  ;    7  Kt-Q2,  0-0 ;    8  B-K2,  P.QR3,  and Q.B2.    (C.  P.  C) 

(5)  2  ..,P-K4;  3Kt-KB3,  P-Q3 ;  4  B-B4,  Kt-QB3 ;  5  0-0,  B-K2;  C P-Q3, 
Kt.B3;    7Kt-B3,  0-0;    8  P-B5,  &c. 

(6)  3  ...  Kt-QB3;  4  B-Kt5,  KKt-K2  ;  5  Kt-B3,  P-QR3;  6  Bxl^t,  KtxB, 
&c. :  or  4  Kt.B3,  KKt-K2 ;  5  P-Q4,  P x  P ;  6  Kt x  P,  Kt x  Kt ;  7  Q x  Kt,  Kt-B3  ; 
8  Q-B2,  &c. 

(7)  4  P-K5,  Kt-QB3  ;    5  P-B3,  Q-Kt3  (or P-B3) :  see French Defence,  Col.  20. 

(8)  2  ..,  P-K3;  3  Kt-QB3,  Kt-K2;  4  Q-K2,  QKt-B3;  5  Kt-B3,  P.QR3; 
6  P-Q3,  Kt-Kt3  (or Kt-R4,  C.  E.  R.);  7  0-0,  B-K2;  8  B-K3,  0-0  (Kieseritz%  v. 
Anderssen).     The Rige^ice gives  9  P-QR4  =  . 

(9)  Anderssen against Paulsen,  played  2  . .,  P-K3;  3  B.Kt2,  Kt-K2;  4  Kt-QB3, 
P-Q3 ;     5  P-Q3,   QKt-B3 ;      6  Kt-KR3,    P-QR3 ;     7  0-0,  B-Q2 ;     8  P-B4,  P-B4. 

The Col.  is Steinitz v.  Anderssen.    Mr.  Ranken prefers White's game. 

(10)  Kieseritzky v.  Anderssen.  If  2  P-QKt4  (an old variation),  PxP;  3  P-Q4, 
P-K3iorP-Q4);  4P-QR3,  PxP;  6BxP,  BxB;  6RxB,  Kt-QB3;  7  P-KB4, 
P.Q4;    8P.K5,  Kt-R3-i-. 

■25B THE CLOSE GAME. 

SECTION III. 

THE QUEEN^S PAWN GAME. 

2P.Q4,    PQ4,    d^c. 

P*Q4  on both sides is a  primitive and classical method of commencing the Close Game.  Ingenuity has striven to obtain special advantages or avoid special disadvantages by  1  P-QB4  (Sec.  IV.)  the English Opening, 
1  P-QKt3  (Sec.  VI.)  the Fianchetto,  P-K3  (Sec.  VI.)  Van  't Kruy's Opening,  Kt-KB3  (Sec.  VIII.)  Zukertort's Opening,  and P-KB4  (Sec.  V.) 
the King's Bishop's Pawn Game,  sometimes called Bird's Opening,  but the positions brought about are frequently identical,  and tlie general treatment is the same.  All these moves may follow P-Q4.  The Queen's Pawn so placed stops combinations by the opponent's minor pieces against the KB Pawn and leads them to act independently of each other. 
Instead of attack we have development.  The pieces are opposed to each other,  or placed so as to be opposed when convenient,  but there is an intervening array of Pawns,  and it has often been noticed that the player who first breaks*  up this arrangement does not improve his position.  He has to beware of having a  minority of Pawns on Queen's side,  of clearing the ground for his adversary's men,  and of having his P  at K3 
left on his hands useless and helpless.  The Queen's Pawn Game is thus one for which patience and judgment are leading qualifications.  It is frequently adopted by players who place reliance on their skill in mid- 
game tactics.  The advance of the Pawns on Queen's side generally decides the result of a  well fought game.  The first player may also play 
1P-Q3  for his opening move  :  the game will then most probably become a 
variation of the Philidor Defence,  White having a  move in hand. 

The English^  Opening  (1  P-QB4)  is played either as a  transposition of the Queen's Pawn Game or to tempt  1  ...,#P-K4  on the other side, 
in which case White can play the Sicilian Defence with a  move in hand. 
1  P-QKt3  (the Fianchetto attack)  and  1  P-K3  (Van  't Kruys opening) 
.are moved with a  similar object.  1  Kt-KB3  is a  neutral move which may be followed by any of the others above named according to Black's play.  1  P-KB4  is to give the player's Bishop,  when posted at QKt2,  free scope without intervening-  Pawns,  and so secure a  diagonal as well as a 
direct attack  ;  but in this,  as in other openings,  the advance with KB Pawn is less sound than that with the Q  Pawn. 

Table  148.— THE QUEEN'S PAWN GAME. 

1  P-Q4(l),  2'Qii^h r- 

'     1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

1 

2 

P-K3 
P-K3 

Kf-QB31(16) 

B-B4 

Kt-KB3 

P-QB4 

a Kt-KB3 

Kt-KB3(13) 

Kt-KB3 

B.B4     (17) 

Kt-KB3 

(S) 

P-K3 

B-Kt5 

P-K3 

4 

B-K2 

(4) 

B-K^ 

B-K2     (13) 

P-K3 

B-K2 

(5) 

Kt-KB3 

P-K3 

BxKt P-B5 

5 

P-B4 

0-0 

P.B4 

BxB P-QKt3 

P-B4 

(6) 

B-Q3 

p-Ba P-K3 

B-Kt5 

6 

0-0 

P-B4 

Kt-B3 

0-0 

Kt-K2 

0-0 

P-B3 

QKt-Q2 

B-Q3 

Q-R4 

7 

P-QKt3 

Kt-B3 

(9) 

Q.Kt3 

P-B4 

Q-Q2 

P-QKt3 

Kt-Q2 

(10) 

Q-B2 

P-B3 

Kt-KB3    " 

8 

B-Kt2 

P-B5 

(11) 

B-Q2 

Kt-B3 

P-B3 

B.Kt2 

B-B2 

R-Bsq QKt-Q2 

P-QEt3 

9 

Kt-B3 
Kt-B3 

(7) 

P-QKt4 
Kt-K5 

— - 

R-QBsq B-K2 

P-QKt3 
R-QBsq PxP B-R3  + 

10 

R-Bsq B-Kt2 

P-KR3 

B-Q2 

R-Bsq P-KR4 

B-R4 

B-Ktsq 

11 

Kt-QR4 

— 

P-Kt5  - 

— - 

PxP R-Ksq  — 

(8) 

— 

P-Kt4- 

"(12) 

KtxP!(14) 

P-KR4- 

(15) 

(1)  1  P-Q3,  P-K4;  2  P-K4,  P.Q4 ;  3  PxP,  QxP;  4  Kt-QB3,  B-QKt5; 
6  B-Q2,  B X  Kt ;  6  B x  B :  compare Col.  5,  p.  39.  The same position springs from 
1  P.K4,  P-K4  ;  2  P.Q3,  &c.  If  1  . . ,  P.Q4  ;  2  P-QB3,  P-K3  or  4 ;  3  P-K4,  PxP; 
4  Q-E4ch,  &c. 

(2)  If  1  ..,P-QB4.  2P.Q5!:  if2PxP,P-K3;  3  P-QKt4,  P-QR4;  4  P.QB3, 
p.QKt3;    5P-QR4,  PxBP;    6  P-Kt5,  P-Q4,  &c. 

(3)  Or  3  . . » P.QB4,  Zukertort frequently transposed White's moves by  1  Kt-KB3, 
•2  P-Q4,  3  P-K3,  &c. 

(4)  Or  4  P-QB4  :    or  4  B.Q3  favoured by Zukertort. 

(5)  Or  4  B-Q3  may be played,  but the Bishop is sometimes useful at KB3  to oppose the adverse Bishop when planted at QKt2.     See note  8. 

(6)  Early exchanges of the centre Pawns are not advantageous. 

(7)  Or  9  QKt.-Q2  to support the KKt,  if played to K5,  or to go  (after B-Ksq)  to 
^Bs<iandKt3.    (C JB.  R,) 

2ero THE CLOSE GAME. 

I 

(8)  With Black's King's Bishop placed at Q3  and his QKt at Q2,  the line-  of play in this Col.  might be continued thus :  11  . . ,  P x  QP ;  12  KP x  P,  P x  P ;  13  P x  P, 
B.B5 1 ;  Id R-B2,  B-B3 ;  15  Kt-B3,  B x  Kt ;  16  P x  B,  Kt-E4 :  17  Kt-K4, .  Q-R5 ; 
18  Kt-Kt3,  QKt-B3,  &c.    See diagram. 

(9)  If  7  P-B5,  B-B2;  8  P-QKtd,  Kt-KS  (C.  E.  B.):  if  8  Kt-BS,  P.QKt4- 
'9  P-QKt4,  P.QR4,  &c. 

(10)  K7..,PxBP;    8P.QR4! 

(11)  pr8KtrKsq.    See diagram. 

(12)  12  Kt X  Kt,  B X  Kt ;    13  Kt.K5,  &c.    (Hull v.  Glasgow.) 

(13)  Or P.QB4,  and if P-K3,  Q-Kt3 !    (C.  E.  R.) 

(14)  12  P.K4,  KtxKt;  13  PxKt,  0-0;  14  0-0,  and KR-Ksq,  (Zukertort V. 
Tscnigorin.) 

(15)  Zukertort V.  Mason, 

(16)  If  2  Kt-KB3,  Kt.KB3;  3  P-K3,  P-QB3;  4  B.Q3  or P-B^  followed in some' events by Q-Kt3. 

(17)  If  3  P X  P,  P-Q5 ;  4  Kt-K4,  P-B4 ;  5  Kt-KtS,  P-K4 ;  6  P.QKt4,  P-QKtS: 
7  B-B3,  PxP,  &c.  (if).  8  PxP,  Qch and wins Bishop. 

(Col.  1.) 

'mm.  «-  'm^^.      f^^^«*>^i mi mWi 

,.,„^,.  ww//^  .^TT„  ^'''"'^^^'„„..,.,^''^^^-  „„„..,, 

^P fW^'  i  ^P     ^P ' 

(Col.  2.) 

p^f^^+  ^ 

''"^'''y^^/z/^'^^^'ff^^'^' 

■  %  ^^ 

ei.        « 

m xi After White's  11th move. 

After Black's  7th move. 

THE CLOSE GAME. 

m Tablb  149.— the QUEEN'S PAWN GAME, 

1  P Q4, 
8 

P-Q4 

II 

6 

10 

P-K8 !     (1) 

Kt-QB3  (2) 

Kt-KB3  (8) 

B-Kt5 

FK2  ' 

P-K3 

0^0 

Kt-KB3  (4) 

PxP BxP QKt--Q2 

00 

P-B4 

Q-K2 

P-KR3 

B-R4  

Kt-Kt3    (5)     P.B4       (6) 

B.B4 

P-QB4 
P-K3 

(7) 

PvQP KPxP P-QKtS B-Q8 

PxP BxP 

9 

B-B4 

Kt-KB3  (8) 

Kt-KB3      " 

P-K3 

B-Q3 

B-Kt3     (9) 

OO B-Q3 

10 

P-QB4 

BxKt  (12) 

RxB PxP Q-R4ch Kt-QB3 

P-K3 
P-K4. 

P-B4 
P-B3 

(10) 

B-Kt2 
0-0 

Kt.B3 
Kt-B3 

Kt.B3 
QKt-Q2 

QKt-Q2 
PxP B-K2 
0-0 

R-Ksq Kt-K6 

BxP  (18) 
B-Kt5cli(14) 
K-Bsq PxP  — 
Q-Kt8  — 

PxP R-Bsq 

0-0 
R-Ksq Q-B2 
P-KB4  (11) 

(1)  2 
245.. 

. ,  P-QB3  has been tried by Steinitz.    For  2  . . ,  P x  P,  see Queen's Gambit, 

(2)  Or Kt-KB3  first. 

(3)  Or  3  . . ,  P-QB3.    3  . . ,  B.Kt5  to double White's Pawns is not good.    (Steinitz.) 

(4)  Or  6  B-Q3,  or  6  Q-KtS.    Mr.  Bird approves of  6  Q-B3. 

(5)  11  P X  P»  B X  P ;    12  KR-Qsq,  QKt-Q2 ;    13  P-X4 + .    (Zukertort v.  Steinitz.) 

(6)  11  P X  P,  P X  P ;    12  Q-R4,  Kt-K.5  = .     (Steinitz v.  Anders?en.) 

(7)  4  ."..  B-K2;  5  P-K3,  0-0;  6  Kt-KB3,  P-QKt3,  &p.  (Blackbume v: 
Taubenhaus.)    The Col.  is Zukertort v.  Steinitz. 

(8)  3"P-K3,  Kt-KB3;  4  P-QK3  I,  P-B4;  6  QKt-B3,  P-QR3,  &c.  (Mason v. 
Mackenzie.) 

(9)  Or  5  B-ICKt5 1    (Mason.)    The Col.  is Mason v.  Mackenzije. 

(10)  Not to be generally recommended.    (Mason.) 

(11)  10..,PxQP;   llKPxP,P-KKt3;  12  0.0,K.Kt2;  13  Q-B2,  KKt-Ktsq,  &c. 

(12)  If  3  PxP?,  Kt-QB3;  4  Kt-KB3,  P-B3;  6  P-K3,  P-K4;  6  B-Kt3, 
BxP,  &c.     (Mason v.  Steinitz.) 

(13)  Or6  ..,QxP.    (Walker.) 

(14)  7  P X  P,  Kt-B3 ;  8  B-Kt5ch,  K-K2 ;  9  Kt.-B3,  Kt  >^  P  ?  (B-Kt5 !) ;  10  Q-Q2, 
Ktx Kt ;  11  Q-Kt5ch,  P-iiS ;  12  Q x  Boh,  K-B2 ;  13  B-KSch.and wins the Queen 
(Mason v.  Tschigorin). 

262 

THE CLOSE GAME. 

Table  160.~THE QUEEN'S PAWN GAME. 

8 

11 

P-QB4 

Kt-KB3 

Kt-QB3 

P-K8 

P-QR3 

B-K2 

B-KB4 

o:^^^ 

P>K8 

P.QKt3  (2) 

P-Q5       (3) 

FQ3 

PxF BxF Kt-B3 

.       IttxKt 
*"    PxKt     (4) 

1   P 

12 
Kt-EB8 
P-Kd P-K8 
Kt-KB3 

(1)     P>B4 

B-Kt6ch QKt-Q2 

P-QKtS B-K2 

B.Kt2 

00 

0-0 

QB2 

Kt.B3 

B-Qsfi Q-Kaq Kt-Bsq- 

WK2 — 

Q4,    p. 

13 

P-K4 

KB 
(6) 

i?xP Kt-QB3 

Kt-KBa B-KKtS 

(6) 

P-B3  1 
BxKt KPxB KtxP Q.Kt3 
B-Q3 

(7). 

^Q4I Kt-QB3 

14 

P-K3 
BxKt Qx]^ 
KtxP Q-Kt3 
B-Q3 

QxP QxB5ch QxKtP+      P-KKt3 

Q-K5 

(8) 

QxR QxR QxKKtch 
(9) 

15 

P.KB3 

PxP    (10) 
KtxP Kt-KB8 
B-Q3 

P-Q3     <H) 

P-KR3 

KTBS Kt-Kt5 

P-KKt3 

K-Q2 
Q-R54-(12) 

(1)  Not essential.    P-KKt3  also good.    See Note  6. 

(i)  Or  6  . . ,  P-Q3,  threatening Q-Ksq and Kt-Bl.  (0.  E.  R.)    Compare Table  162, 

(8)  Leipzig v.  Hamburg.    Englisch v.  Bird,  continued  7  Kt-BS,  B-KtS ;    8  B-Q3, 
Kt.K5;    9P-KR4,  &o. 

(4)  11  Kt-Q4,  Q-Q2 ;    12  R-Bsq,  B-BS. » 

(6)  Introduced by Staunton.     Tschigorin played  2  B-KKt5,  P-KJEIS ; 
P.KKt4 ;    4  B.Kt3 :    (if)  4  . . ,  P-B6 ;    5  P-K3,  P-KE4 ;     6  P x  P,  P-K5  : 

3  B-R4, 
7  B-K2, 

t».Q4.     (Bird.)     Or  2  P.KKt3,  Kt-KB3;     3  B-Kt2.  P-K3;     4  Kt.KB3,  B.K2; 

6  P-B4,  B-Kt5ch ;    6  KKt.Q2.    (Steinitz v.  Zukertort.) 

(6)  Potter V.  Steinitz.    If  3  . .,  P-K3;    4  Qch,  &c. 

(7)  The Handhuch plays  7  Q-K2  to an ultimate win for Black. 

(8)  6-..,Q-K2;    7B-Q3,  P-Q4;    8  QKt-B3.    (Gunsberg v.  Bird.) 

(9)  Continued  11  K-Q2,  QxB?  (QxEP!);.  12  Kt-BGch,  K-B2;  13  Q-Kt8ch. 
KxKt;  UQxBch,  K-Kt4;  15  P-KB4ch,  K-Kt5 ;  16  B-K2ch,  K-R6 ;  17  Q-R6ch, 
K..Kt7 ;    18  Q-Kt5ch,  K xP ;    19  B-B3  and wins.    (Goring v.  Minckwitz.)      ^ 

(10)  Or  3  . ,,  P-K3 ;    4  Kt-B3.    See B.  C.  M.,  1892,  p.  363. 

(11)  Given m  A.  S.  sp Blackrfiar's Second Gambit,  If  5  . .,  P-K3,  or P-KKt3; 
6  Kt.Kt5»  followed by Kt x  RP as in the From Gambit. 

(12)  If  10  ..,  F-K3;  U P-Q5,  Kt'K4;  12  PxPoh,  K motes;  13  BxKt4^ 
(A,  S.) 

SECTION IV- 

i Table  15  J.— 

THE ENGLISH OPENING. 

m 

1 

P-QB4. 

n 

1 

2 

3 

4 

i P-QB4 

P.K4   ■ 

2 

P.B4 
P-B4 

Kt-QB3 
B-Kt5? 

(2) 

P-K3 

Kt-KB3 

Kt-QB3     " 

3 

P-Q3 
Kt-KB3 

Kt-Q5 
B.K2 

Kt-QB3 

P-QR3 
P-Q4 

P.QR3 

B-Kt5     (6) 

P-KKt3 

Kt-QB3 

P-Q4 

(3) 

Kt-Q5 

PxP Kt-QB3 

4 

P-Q3 

PxP KtxKt KtxP B-Kt2 

P-K4 

B-B4 

PxKt Kt-KB3 

P-.Q8       (9) 

6 

Kt-B3 

P-QB3 

(4) 

0-0 

B-Q3 

P-Q3 

Kt-B3 

KtxB 

(5 

B-B4 

Kt-B3 

B-K2 

0 

P-K4 

KtxKt P-Q3 

KtxKt P-B4 

B-Q2 

QxP Kt-K2 

KtPxKt B-Q2 

7 

Q-K2     ■ 

0-0 

B-KB4 

O-O QKt-K2 

P-QR3 

P-K4 

0-0 

P-Q4 

Q-B2 

M P-KKt3 

(1)    P-Q4 

Kt-Q2 

PxP      (8) 

P-B3 

P-KKt3- 

-        0-0-0 

P-Q4       (7) 

BPxP Kt-B3  — 

9 
10 
11 
12 

B.Kt2- 

—     B-K3 
Kt-B3 
Kt-Q2 
Kt-Kt5 
P-KR3' 
KPxP- 
BB4    - 

- 

P-QB4 

P-Q5 

Kt-Q2 

B-Kt2 

Kt-B3 

B-B4 

P-QR34- 

Kt.B8~ 

(1)   la this Col,  the mid-game position is approached in the simplest manner. 
rf8..,KPxP;    OBxP.PxP;    lOPxP.KtxP;    11  Kt-Q5,  &c. 

(2)  This Col.  is. London v.  Vienna.    : 
of Cols.  3  and  5. 

(3)  If  4  P.K3,   Kt-KB3;     5  KtxB,  QxKt B-Kt2;    8P-B3,  Kt-R4;    7  P-KKtS,  P-KB4-t-. 

Kt-KB3,  and P-KKt3  are transpositions 
6  Kt.K2,  P-QKt3;     7  Kt-BS, 

(4)  Or5Kt-QR3! 

(5)  If  6  Kt-B7ch,  Q X  Kt ;    7  B x  Q,  B-Kt5ch,  and Black wins a  Pawn. 
For  3  P-Q4  see Van  't Kruys Opening,  Col.  1. 
Zukertort's correction of  4  Kt-K2,  as given in our first edition. 
Steinitz v.  Rosenthal.     Or  8  P-K5  I Skipwoith V.   Winawer.      Or  5  Kt-B3,  KKt-K2  ;      6  B-K3,  P.Q4  ; 

(6) 

m 

(9) 
KtxP 

8  0-0,  0-0  ;    9  Q-B2,  &c.    (Zukertort v.  Blackburne.) 

7  PxP. 

^264 

THE CLOSE GAME. 

Table  152.— THl 

1 

a ENGLISH OPENING. 

M P.QB4. 

^ 

1 

6 

7 

8 

9 

m i 

P.K3 

P.KB4    (3y P-KKt3  ■"• 

2 

P-K3 

(1) 

P-K3 

P.KKt3 

(6) 

P-Q4 

P-KB4 

(2) 

P-K3 

P-K3 

B-Kt2 

8 

P-KKt3 
Kt-KB3 

K;t-KB3 
P-QKt3 

Kt-QB3 
Kt-KB3 

B-Kt2 
Kt-KB3 

— 

Kt-KB3 

P-Q3 

4 

B.Kt2 
P.B3 

— 

P-QR3 
B.Kt2 

P-Q4       (4) 
P-QKt3  (5) 

P-QR3 
P-Q4 

P-K3 

P-KB4    (8) 

Kt-KB3 
P-Q4 

Kt-B3 
Kt-KB3 

Kt-B3 
B-Kt2 

P-Q4 
Kt-B3 

B-K2 

5 

P-B3 

P.KtS B.Q3 

P-Q4 
B-K2 

P-KKt3 
B-Kt5 

Kt-QB3 
P-KKt3 

0-0 

6 

Q-B2 

B-Kt2 
0-0 

B-Q3 
0-0 

B.Kt2 
0-0 

Kt-B3 

Kt-B3- 

7 

B-K2 

Kt.b8~ 

0-0 

P-Q5 

0-0 

0-0 

8 

QKt-Q2 

P-QR3 

BxQKt 

0-0 

M P-Q4 

0-0 

PxB B-R6 

m 

9 

P-QKt3 

Q-Ksq P-Q4    ' 

R-Ksq Kt-B3 

P-QKt4 

Kt-K5 

P-B5 

10 

Q-K2 

B-Q3 

QKt-Q2 

Kt-K5   ' 

P-QR3 

Q-Kt3  — 

P-B4    — 

P-K3 

11 

B-Kt2 
Q-B2-Q-Kt3  -- 

P.B4    — 

1P-B3 
P-KR4- 

(7) 

J. 

m 

12 

Kt.K5-Q-K2   - 

- 

I 

(1)  2  P-Q4,  P-Q4  transposes into the QP game which may be brought about in various ways as ultimately in this Col.  placed between Steinitz and Gelbfuhs.  In Cols.  7  and  8  Black transposes moves  1  and  2. 

(2)  2  . .,  P.QB4  ;  3  P.-QKt3,  P-Q4  ;  4  Kt-KB3,  P.Q5.  (Liverpool v.  Calcutta.) 
See Table  154,  Col.  2,  for  3  P-Q4. 

(3)  This Col.  is Skipworth v.  Burn.  Against Steinitz,  Paulsen played  1  . . ,  P-Q3 ; 
2  P-Q4.  P-KKt3  ;    3  Kt-QB3,  B-Kt2,  &c. 

(4)  A position in the Van  't Ki*uys Opening. 

(5)  Mason v.  Tschigorin.  Or  4  . . ,  B-K2 ;  5  B-Q3,  P-QKt3  ;  6  Kt^3,  B-Kt2 ; 
7  0-0,  0-0,  &c.     (Hruby v.  Mason.) 

(6)  2  P.Q4,  P-K3  ;  3  Kt-QB3,  Kt-KB3 ;  4  P-QR3,  B-K2  ;  5  P.K3,  0-0 ; 
6  B.Q3,  P.QKt3,  &c.     (Neumann v.  Paulsen.)    The Col.  is Wisker v.  Bird. 

(7)  OrllP-KKt4l    (C.  E.  R.) 

(8)  Potter against Zukertort.  The objection to this move is that it leaves a  weak J<P if followed by P.Q4  ;    or permits White to play P-Q5  as in Col.  7. 

1 

Tabli  153 

SEC 

.-THE KIN TION V. 

[G BISHOP' 

GAME. 

■ 

m 

1 

P.KB4. 

t ii 

2 

8 

4 

5 

w* 

P-K3 

(1) 

P-Q4 

P-KB4  (11) 

2 

Kt.KB3 

(2) 

P-K3       (8) 

P-K3 

P-K4 

Kt-KB3 

(3) 

B-K2 

P-QB4 

P-K3 

PxP P-K3 

P-K3 

Kt-KB3 

B-K2 

P-Q3 

3 

B-K2 

P-QKt3 

P-K3 

Kt-KB3 

PxP B-K2 

(4) 

B-K2 

P-QKt3 

P-Q-KtS BxP 

4 

P-QKt3 

B-Kt2 

Kt-KB3 

B-K2 

Kt-KB3 

0-0 

0-0 

B-Kt2 

BrKt2 

Kt-KB3 

6 

B-Kt2 

Kt-KR3  (6) 

Kt-B3 

0  0 

P-K3 

P-QKtS P-B4 

B-Kt5     (9) 

Kt-KB3 

Kt-Kt5 

6 

0-0 

0-0 

B-Q2 

P-Q3 

P.KKta(12) 

B-Kt2 

Kt-B3 

0-0 

P-QR4 

P-KR4 

7 

P.B4 

P-KB4    (7) 

B-K2 

Kt-K5? 

B-R3 

Q-Ksq P-QKt3 

BxQKt P-Q3 

P-R5 

8 

Kt-B3 

b:kb3 

BxB B-B3 

BxKt P.KR3 

B-Kt2 

P-Q3 

P-B3 

PxB 

9 

P-Q4 

(5) 

P-Q3 

0-0 

Kt-B4 

Kt-Q4 

P-Q4 

Kt-Kt5  — 

P-QKt4 

PxP 

10 

Kt-Q2 

B-Ksq- 

KKt-Q2 

Q-K2 

Q-Q2 

(10) 

Q-Kt3 

RxP 

11 

Q-K2 
QR-Ksq  — 

Q-Ksq Kt-Q4  + 

RxR PxR 

12 

R-B2        — 

Q-Kt6chil8) 

(1)  1  ..,  P-K4;  2  P.K4  leads into the King's Gambit.  See also the From Gambit. 

(2)  2  P-K4,  P-Q4  or P-QB4  transposes into the Sicilian Defence. 

(3)  Or2P-QKt3.     (Blackburne.) 

(4)  Or  4  P:QKt3,  0-0  ;    5  B-Kt2,  P-QKt3 ;    6  P-QR4  (Bird),  B-Kt2 ;   7  B-K2 1 

(5)  Mr.  Potter notes fchat this line of play foils White's chances. 

(6)  Mason v.  Schallopp.     Zukertort and Hoffer prefer  5  . . ,  Kt-KB3. 
(7)'  I much prefer P-Q4.     (C.  E.  R.) 

(8)  Or  2  Kt-B3,  P-KKt3  ;  3  P-K3,  B-Kt2.  When the KB is played on the other diagonal,  Bird's attack on the KKt Pawn with Bishop,  posted on QKt2  and Q  oh KKt3  (via Ksq)  is not easily met  (Lasker). 

(0)  6  B-K2,  B-K2 ;  7  0-0,  P-QR3  :  Bird v.  Tarrasch continued  8  Kt-K5,  Q-B2 ; 
9  r-Q3,  0-0;  10  Kt-Q2,  Kt-Q2;  11  QKt-B3,  P-B3;  12  KtxQKt,  QxKt; 
13  q-Ksq,  P-QKt4 ;     14  P-QR4,  B-Kt2;     15  Q-Ksq,  &c. 

(10)  Burn against Thorold played  10  . .,  R-Bsq. 

(11)  If  1  . . ,  P-KKfc3  ;    2  P-K4.     (C.  E..!^.)    The Col.  is Bird v.  Pitschel. 

(12)  Or  6  ...  Q-K2;  (if)  7  KtxRP,  KtxKt;  8  Qch,  K-Qsq;  9  BxKt., 
r-KKt3+. 

(13)  13  K-Bsq,  Q.KR5 ;  14  B-Kt6ch,  K-K2 ;  15  Q-KR5  and wins.  (Bird t.  Gelbfuhs.) 

U 

''See THE CLOSE GAME. 

Table  164.- 

1 
P-K3 
P-K4? 
P-QB4 

SEC! 

-THE VAN 
0 

2 

:iON AND FIAN( 
4 

'T KRUYS PENINGS. 

3HETT0 

1 

3 

P-QKt3 

BK4 

B-Kt2 

P-KB3 

P-K3 

P-Q4 

Kt-K2.     (4) 

Kt-KR3 

Kt-Kt3 

B-K3 

P-QB4 

P-B3 

B-K2 

B.Q3 

0-0 

0-0 

P-Q3 

Kt-Q2 

Kt-B3 

P-R3 !     (5) 

B-B3     — 

Kt-Kt3^ 

5 

P-KKt3 

P.K4 

B-Kt2 

2 
8 
4 
6 
6 
7 

P-KB4 

P-QB4 

P-K3 

P-Q4 

Kt-KB3 

P-B4 

P-B4 

P-Q5 

Q-B2 

Kt-KB3 

B-K2 

B-K2 

0-0 

0-0 

P-QKt3 

Kt-B3 

P-QR3 

P-QKt3 

B-Kt2 

B-Kt2 

P-QKt4 

PxKP QPxP 

(2) 
(3) 

P-K3       (6) 

B-Kt2 

P-KB4 

P-K3 

Kt-KB3 

P-QB4 

B-K2 

P-QR3 

P-Q3 

P-Q4 

0-0 

Kt-KB3 

P-QKt3 

P.Kt3 

B-Kt2 

B-Kt2 

Kt-K5 

0-0 

Kt-Q2 

Kt-Ksq QKt-B3 

P-B8 

Kt-Kt4-f(7» 

Kt-KB3 
Kt-QB3 
P-Q4 

PxP      (1) 
KtxP Kt.B3  -f P-Q4     ; 

P-Q3 

Kt-KB3  (8 
P-KB4 

PxP QBxP B-Q3 
B-Kt5 

P-B3 
Kt-QB3 

QKt-Q2      1 
Kt-B3         II 

8 

0-0           1 
P-K4           II 

10 
11 

It Q-Kt3     ■    11 
Q-Q2 

(1)  4  P-Q4,  KPxP;     5  KPxP,  B-QKt5 ;     6  Kt-B3,  Kt-K6;     7  Q-Kt3,  Q.K2J 
8  B-K3,  0-0 ;    9  B-K2  (if P  x P,  R-  Ksq ;    thr.  Kt x  P),  Kt-QB3,  &c. 

(2)  1  . . ,  P-K3  or P-Q4 ;    2  P-Q4  transposes into the QP game. 

(3)  The position is that in the English Opening.     The  .play is  2ukertort Anderssen. 

(4)  Or  4  P-Q4  1    (C.  E.  R.)    The Col.  is Skipworth v.  Burn. 

(5)  To prevent  10  PxP,  PxP;    11  Kt-Kt5,  B-Ktsq ;.    12  B.R3,  <fec. 

(6).  Or  1  . .,  P.Q4,  (if)  2  B-Kt2,  P.KB3 ;    followed by Kt-KR3,  and Kt-B2. 

(7)  The position may be brought in the QP game,  or English,  or Van  't Kru] 
Opening.     (Cols.  1-2.)    Black may now play his Queen out via King's square. 

(8}   Or  3  . .,  P-KB4.  (Steinitz);    if then  4  P-KB4,  Kt.QB3,  stoppinf?  t.he n-chnn^i OtWmte's K  Pawn.    The Col.  is Burn v.  Owen. 

THE CLOSE GAME. 

267' 

SECTION VII Table  165.— THE FIANCHETTO DEFENCE. 
I P-K  4  . 
2  8  4  5 

f P-QKtS  {!) 

P-KKt3 

2 

P-Q4 
P-K3 

P-Q4       (8) 

B-Kt2 

PKKt3 

P-Q3 

8 

B-Q3 

P-Q5 

P-KB3 

(5) 

B-Q3 

BQ3 

B-Kt2 

B-Kt2 

P^ 

B-QKt2 

Kt-KB3. 

md. 

Kt-K2     (2) 

P-QB4 

B-Q3 

B-K3 

PQB4 

t Kt-KB3 

B.B4 

P-QB4 

B-Kt2 

B-Kt2 

r 

5 

Kt-Kt3 

Kt-QB3 

P-B3 

Kt-KB3 

Kt-QB3 

P-B4 

Kt-K2 

PxP 

(6) 

P-K3 

0-0 

6 

PxP  ! 

B-K2       (4) 

PxP Kt-B3 

P-B4 

KBxP    (3) 

Kt-Kt3 

B-Kt6ch Kt-KB3 

P-K4 

7 

Kt-B3 

Kt-B3 

Kt-B3 

Q-K2 

BPxP K^3 

0-0 

Kt-K2 

Kt-B3 

(7) 

PxP 

8 

B\m  — 

P-QR3 

Kt-K2 

P-K5 

P-Q5  -  (9) 

P-Q4-P-QR4 

0-0 

Kt-Q4 

P-B3- 

0-0  — 

0-0  — 

KtxKt  -f 

9 

P.B4  — 

— 

(1)  1  P-QKt3  for the first player resolves shortly into a  Var.  of the QP gama, 
unless P-K4  follows ;     for which see p.  266. 

(2)  Or  4  Kt-KB3  (Tsohigorin v.  Skipworth).  Or  4  B-K3,  Kt-KB3 ;  5  Kt.Q2, 
P.B4 ;  6  P-QB3,  Kt-BS ;  7  R-Bsq,  Q.B2 ;  8  Kt-R3,  P-Q3 ;  9  0-0,  0-0-0,  &c. 
(Ranken v.  MacDonnell.) 

(3)  If  6  ...PxP;    7  P-QB4  with a  good game. 

(4)  Or  6  P-KKt3  to play B-Kt2.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(5)  Or  3  B-Q3.  P-KB4 :  White may continue by  4  P-KB3,  and afterwards Kt-KR3  and B2.  Another course is  4  P x  P,  B x  P ;  5  Q-R5ch,  P-KKt3 ;  6  P x  P, 
B-KKt2  (if  6  ...  Kt-KB3;  7  PxPdisch,  and B-Kt6  mate I)  ;  7  PxPdis oh. 
K-Bsq;    8  P x Kt  (Queen)  ch,  K x Q ;    9Q-Kt4,  BxR;     10  P-KB3,  &c.     (W.  W.) 

(6)  Or  6  . . ,  Kt-QB3  ;  6  Kt-K2,  PxP,  &c.  (Bum v.  Owen):  or  6  P-Q6,  Kt-K4 ; 
7  B.K2-I-.    (C.  E.  R.) 

(7)  7  .'. ,  0-0  is better,  followed by P-Q4.    (C.  E.  B.) 

(8)  2  P-KBt,  P-K3  ;    3  Kt-KB3,  P-QB4  ;    4  P.Q4.  P.Q4 ;     5  Kt.B3,  B-Kt2,  Ac? 
^andbuch.) 

(9)  If taken the Pawn is recovered by Et-Kt5, 

268 

THE CLOSE GAME. 

SECTION VIII. 

Table  156.- 

1 

-UNUSUAL 
2 

AND IR REGULAR OPENINGS/! 
4                    6         1 

8 

1 

P-K4 

P-K4 

P-K4 

P-K4 

Kt-KB8(l4 

t>-K4 

P-Q3 

P-QB3 

(6) 

Kt-QB3 

P-Q4        1 

2 

P-QB3 
P.Q4!     (1) 

P-Q4       (4) 
Kt.KB3  (5) 

P-Q4 
^Q4 

P-Q4       (9) 
P-K4 

P-K4     (181 

PxP         1 

8 

Kt-B3     (2) 

B.Q3 

PxP 

(7) 

PxP     (10) 

Kt-Kt5       % 

PxP      (3) 

Kt.B3 

PxP 

(8) 

KtxP Kt-KB3(14) 

4 

KtxP B-03 

P-QB3 
P-K4 

B-Q3 
Kt-QB3 

P-KB4 
Kt-Kt3 

B-B4     (16), 

P.K3          1 

5 

Kt-34 

P-Q5 

P-QB3 

B-E3 

Q-K2         1 

B-Ks Kt-K2 

Kt-B3 

B-Kt5ch Q-Q6         1 

6 

P-Q4 

P-KR3 

.. — 

Kt-B3 

P-B3 

P-QB3       1 

txt..;,. 

Kt.Kt3 

• — 

B-Kt5 

B-R4 

Q-K4 

BxP P-KR^ 

Kt-KB3 

P-Q8-7 

0-0  — 

B-I14 
B-KB4 

B.Kt3 
Q-Q2 

(16)- 

6 

0-0- 

3P-K3 

P-QB3 

9 

QKt-Q2 

Kt-R8+ 

B.Q8 

(11) 

BxB  - 

_ 

10 

(1)  If  2  . . ,  Kt-KBS ;  8  P-KB4,  Kt x  P ;  4  Q-B3  as in thb defence to the Greco Counter Gambit :  if  3  P-Q4,  Kt x  P  :    4  P x  P,  P-Q4 ;    6  B-K3.  B-K3  or QB4.= . 

(2)  3  PxP,  QxP;  4  P.Q4,  PxP;  5  PxP,  P-QB4;  6  B.K3,  PxP; 
7  Q X  P  * :    if  4  . . .  Kt-OBS :    6  Kt-B3.  P-K5.    See Table  26.  Note  13. 

(8)  -Or  3  . . ,  P-KB3  as in Staunton's Opening :    or  3  . . ,  Kt-QBS. 

(4)  2  Kt-QB3,  P-K4;  3  Kt.B3:  see'Philidor's defence.  <Dr  2  P-KB4,  P-K4; 
SP-Q4,Kt-KB3:    4Kt-QB3,&c.    (C.  E.R.) 

(6)  2  ..,  P-KKt3:  see Fianchetto defence,  p.  267,  Col.  5.  If  2  .,,  P-KB4; 
3^QB3  (or  3  B-Q3,  PxP;  4  BxP,  &c.),  Kt-KB3;  4  P-E6,  PxP;  5  PxP, 
QxQ-;  6KtxQ,Kt-Kt5:  7P-KB4I:  if  3  ...  P.K4;  4  Kt-EB8  transposes into Pbilidoz's defence. 

THE CLOSE GAME.  869- 

5^  If  1  . . ,  P-KB4 ;  2  P X  P,  Kt-KB3 ;  3  P-KKt4  as in the defence to the King'3 
Gambit.  If  1  ..,  P-KB3?;  2P-Q4,P.K3;  3  B-Q3,  Kt-KQ ;  4Kt-KB3:  if4P.Q5, 
P-Q3. 

1(7)  If  3  P-KB3,  P-K3  ! :  3  . . ,  P x  P on this move opens White's game.  If how- 
ever 3  Kt.0B3,  P-K3?;  4  B-Q3,  Kt-B3;  6  P-K5,  KKt.(^2  ;  6  P-B4  or QKt.K2: 
if  3  . . ,  P X  'P I ;    4  Kt X  P,  B-KB4  or P-K4.    If  3  P-K5,  B-B4 ;    4  P-KB4  or B-Q3. 

(8)  If  3  ..,  QxP;  4  Kt-QB3  as in the Centre Counter Gambit..  The Col.Js given in the Eandhuch. 

^9)  2  Kt-E!S3  will transpose shortly into a  regular opening. 

(10)  3  P-Q5,  QEt.K2 ;    4  B.Q3,  P-Q3 ;    5  P.QB4.  P.KB4 ;    6  P-B4,  &o. 

(11)  &  . . ,  KKt-K2 ;    10  B-Q3 1    (Salvioli). 

(12)  If  1  Kt-QB3,P-Q4;  2  P-K3,  P.K4;  3  P-KKt3,  B-KS;  4  P.Q4,  PxP; 
6QxP,Kt.KB3;    6B-Q2,  B.K2+. 

(13)  Tliis Col.  is the Tennison Gambit.  After  2  P-Q4,  B-Kt5  Mr.  Kanken gives 
3  QKt-Q2  followed by P-B4:  Salvioli plays  3  Kt-K5,  B.R4;  4  P-KKt4,  B-Kt8; 
6P-KR4,&c.    See also Col.  6.    ^ 

(14)  8  ..,  Q.Q4;  4  P.Q4,  PxP c.p.;  6  BxP,  Ac:  if  4  P.KR4,  Kt-KBS; 
6  Kt-QB3,  Q-K4+.  (C.  E.  R.)  lf3..,P-KB4;  4  B.QB4I,  Kt-KB3?;  6  B-BT^h, 
K-Q2,  6  Kt-K6  wins. 

(16)  4  Kt-QB3,  B^Kt5;  5  B-K2,  B-B4 ;  6  B-B4,  P-K3;  7  Q-K2,  Q-Q2; 
8  KKt X  P  (K5),  Kt X  Kt ;  9  Kt x  Kt,  Kt.B3  and  0-0-0,  (Golmayo):  '  or  7  . . ,  Kt-BS ; 
8KKtxP(k5)KtxKt;  9 Kt x Kt. Kt-.Q5 ;  10Q-Q3,Q,R6;  11  QxKt.  QxKtch+. 
(0.  E.  E.) 

(16)  This opening may be made a  variation of the Centre Counter Gambit.  ▼!«: 
1  P-K4,  P-Q4 ;    2  Kt-KB3,  &c. 

For variations springing from  1  P-Q3  see the Queen's Pawn Game.  p.  259,  note  1.. 

5^70  THE CLOSE GAME: 

Table  157.— UNUSUAL AND IRREGULAR OPENINGS. 

6                    7  8                    0  10 

Kt-EBB P.QR4    (2)  P>Q4  P.QKt4 

FKS       (T)  P-K4  P-Q4       (6)  P.K4      ^9) 

P-Q4  P-QB3  P>R5  P-KB4  BKt2 

Kt-KB3  P^Q4  P-Q4       (4)  FK3       (7)  P-Q3     (10) 

P-K3  P-Q4  PK3  Kt-KB3  P-KS     (11) 

P-QKtS FK5  Kt-KB3  Kt-KBS B^Bi B-K2  B-B4  P-R6  P-K3  B-K2    (12) 

B-Kt2  B.Q3  PxT      (5)  B.Q3       (8)  Kt-Q2 

0-0  BxB KtKB3  B-Q3  P.Q3 

B^l2  QxB B-Q3  FB4  FQi P-B4  P-K3  P-Q4  P-BB P-QR8 

0-0  5-K8+   (3)    B-KEt6  Kt-B3  F^Qli KtB3  PxP  00  PxP P^Qi BxP P-QR3  Q-R4ch P-QKt8  P-KR3  B-Q2  Q-Q2 

^    P^Bi FxKt  0-0  QxBP B>Kt2      —  QxB   —  B-Ksq  —  Kt-KB3   — 

^    Kt-B3orQ2—  P.B3    -^                  —  B-Q8       — 

(1)  Or  1  ..,  P.Q4;  ^  P-Q4,  P-K3;  3  P-K3,  Ac.  The Col.  19  Zukerfcort v. 
Noa,  and transposes into the Q  Fawn game,  Col.  1,  p.  259.  See also Col.  5,  p. 
259. 

(2)  Or  1  P-QR3,  when if P-K4 ;  2  P.QB4,  playing the Sicilian Defence with a 
move gained.    Black may,  however,  reply  1  . . ,  P-Q4  ! 

(3)  Ware v.  Keyes  :  Black played  6  . . ,  B-B4.  Cols.  7-8  are the  "  Meaddw  "Hay  " 
Opening,  invented by Mr.  Preston Ware,  of Boston,  U.S. 

(4)  Or2P-QIl3I 

(5)  Or4P-QKt3. 

(6)  l..,Kt.KB3;  2P.KB4,P-KKt3;  3 Kt-KB3, B-Kt2 ;  4P-K3,P-Q3;  5B-K2, 
0-0;  6.0-0,  QKt-Q2; .  7;P-B4,  P-B3;  8  Kt-B3,  Q-B2;  9  P.K4,  P-K4.  (Ware v, 
Paulsen.)    The Col.  is  "  The Stonewall Opening,  "  introduced by Mr.  Ware. 

(7)  2  . .,  B-B4  is also a  good move.     (C.  E.  R.) 

(8)  Or 4  ..,B-K21 

(9)  Or  1  . .,  P.QR4 ;  g P-KtS,  P.QB3 ;  3  P-QR4,  P-K4.  (Jenkins v.  Bl^ckburne.i Orl  ..,P-K3,  or P.QKt3.  Or  1  ..,P.Q4I;  2B-Kt2.  P-KS;  3  P.QR3,  P-QB4-f, 
(C.  E.  R.) 

(10)  Or 2  ..,P-KB3.| 

(11)  Or  3  P-Kt5,  P.QR3 ;    4  P-QR4,  ^, 

(12)  Or  4  Q-B3  t . 

CHESS OPENINGS. 

271^ 

BOOK VI. 

GAMES AT ODDS. 

SUMMARY OF SECTIONS. 

SlCTION I. 

The Pawn and Move Game. 

o n. 

The Pawn and Tico Moves Game, 

OL Ths Odds of a  Knight. 

272 

GAMES AT ODDS. 

SECTIONS I.    AND II THE PAWN AND MOVE ALSO PAWJN.AND, 
TWO MOVES GAMES. 

IT has been noted by Mr.  Potter in the Westminster Papers,  that one of the most important principles of the Pawn and one or two moves game is that the Royal Pawns,  unless provoked,  should be kept on their own half of the board until everything is matured for the Rubicon to be crossed 
^with effect.  The preliminary consideration for the odds giver is to guard against a  check by the White Queen at KR5.  This is however not un- 
frequently a  harmless move which may be permitted with impunity or even invited as a  premature ->attack.  Another point for Black,  if his opponent will give him time,  is to castle on his King's side,  so as to command the open Kin^g-'s Bishop's file with his Rook.  If he castles on the Queen's side,  he is not only exposed to the ordinary disadvantages of that proceeding when adopted by the second player,  but his King's side Pawns  "are dangerously weakened for the end game.  He need not ba afraid of early exchanges,  or an open game.  His imphed superior skill will enable him to overcome any little difficulty that may arise in con- 
sequence.    Even a  Pawn ending,  if Black can keep his King's Rook J 

GAMES AT ODDS.  273- 

Pawn unmoved and his King at hand,  is not necessarily a  win for the first player,  his extra Pawn notwithstanding.  Analysts condemn on principle certain variations in which Black offers a  second Pawn for an open game. 
This condemnation must always be qualified by a  consideration of the style,  as well as the strength of the players.  Some play an open game much stronger than a  close game. 

One of Black's difficulties is to develop his Queen's Bishop,  and bring his Queen's Rook into action.  The line of play which accomplishes this object in the Queen's Pawn and Fianchetto openings leaves him in this case,  with a  backward and unsupported King's Pawn.  His leading idea should be to treat the opening pretty much as he would the French Defence,  with due allowance for the special modifications.  He has to maintain the balance of position,  as well as he can,  with less freedom of action.  His adversary may advance against him on either,  side of the board. 

The first player,  on his part,  must try to keep his adversary*? 
development backward.  He has one resource always at hand in case of emergencies.  He can give up a  minor piece for two Pawns and remain with very little inferiority of force.  For example a  Bishop at Q3  attacking a  Black Pawn at KKt3,  which is defended by the Rook's Pawn only, 
may be sacrificed in the early part of the game,  if the White Queen is free to retake the supporting Pawn.  White's three Pawns on King's side will then have a  clear course,  and become very strong.  To meet this kind of attack Black may play his Queen in two moves to KKt2  after P-KKt8. 
Another strong attack,  after Black has played P-KKt3,  is by promptly advancing the King's Rook's Pawn.  If White commences the game with P-Q4  or P-QB4  he does not aim at early advantages,  and the play is conducted on the same lines as the Queen's Pawn game,  in which Black has time to secure a  fair development and prepare for mid-gam« 
contingencies. 

-8«l^i»8> 

274  GAMES AT ODDS. 

SECTION I 

Table  158.— THE PAWN AND MOVE GAME. 
(Remove Black's King's Bishop's Pawn.) 

1 

2 

3 

4 

^            1 

1 

P.K4 
P.K8 

1 

P-Q3 

9t P-Q4       (1) 
P-Q4       (2) 

P-Q4       (6) 
Kt-KB3 

P-B3 

P-K4       (9f 

8 

Q-R5ch PxP       (4) 

Kt-QB3!(6) 

Kt-KB3 

Kt-KB8(10) 

P-KKtS PxP Kt-B3     (7) 

P-Q4 

B-Kt5    (11) 

A Q-K5 
Kt-KB3 

P-QB4 
Kt-KB3 

P-Q5 
Kt-K4 

B-Q3 
P-KKt3 

PxP Q-K2 

5 

PxP!     (3) 

Kt-QB3 

P-B4 

P-B3 

Q-Q5 

B-Qa B-.QKt5 

Kt-B2 

B-Kt2 

BxKt 

6 

Q-K2 

B-Q3 

Kt-B3 

P.K5+ 

PxB        ' 

KtxP Kt-B3 

P-K4 

P.B3 

7 

P.QB4+ 

P-QR3 
BxKtch PxP^.i>. 
BxP PxP PxQ        ■ 

8 

PxB B-Q3+ 

PxQ 

0-0 

(8) 

KtxP 

9 

Kt.K2  + 

B-Kt5ob-|- 

B-K3 

(1)  If  2  P^KB4,  Kt.KR3.    If  2  Kt-KB3,  P-Q4;    3  P-K5,  P-B4. 

(2)  If  2  ..,  P-KKtS;    3  B.Q3,  P-B3  and P-Q4.     See Col.  4.     Or  2  .,,  Q-K2: 

3  B-Q3,  Kt-QB3;  4  Kt-KB3:  here Steinitz replied by  4  ..  Kt-Qsq,  thence to B2. 
White may vary with  4  P-QB3  to play Q.B2  in which case it is sometimes convenient for Black to play P-KKt3  and Q-KKt2.  A game Wayte v.  Horwitz nms:  2  ... 
P.KKt3,  3  B-Q3,  P-B4 ;    4P.KR4,  PxP;    5P.R5,  B-Kt2;    6PxP,  &c. 

(3)  If  5  B-KKt5,  B.K2;     6  PxP?,  0-0;     and Black has the attack:     ii 

6  B-QKt5ch,  K-B2  (Fraser v.  Steinitz):  or  6  . . ,  P-B3 ;  7  P x  P,  Q.R4ch ;  8  Kt-QB3, 
0-0;    (if)  9  P-Q6,  Kt-Kt5,  &c. 

(4)  If  3  P-K5,  P-B4  as in the French Defence.     Or  3  B-Q3,  (if)  3  . .,  P-KKt3 

4  Kt-KB3,  P-B4 ;    5  P-B3,  &c.    The Col.  is Devinck v.  Morphy. 

(5)  Or  2  B-B4,  Kt-KB3  ;    3  P.Q3 :    or  3  P.Q4,  Kt.B3  (not Kt x  P) ;     4  Et-QB; 
P-K3  or  4. 

(6)  If3P-K5,PxP;    4PxP,  QxQch;    5  K x Q,  Kt-Kt5,  &c. 

(7)  If  3  ..,  P-K4;     4  PxP,  PxP;     5  QxQch,  KxQ;     6  B-IOCt5,  B-K3 

7  O-O-Och. 

(8)  De Vere v.  Steinitz played  8  P-B5,  B-Q2 ;    9  B-QB4,  Q-K2 ;     10  0-0,  0-0-0< 

(9)  If  2  . .,  P-K3 ;    3  B-Q3,  Kt-QB3 ;    4  B.K3,  Kt-B3  ;    5  P-QB3,  &c.    Or  2 
B-K3;     3  Qch,  P-KKtS;      4  Q-QKtSch,  B-Q2;     5   QxP,  Kt-QB3;     6  Kt-KB3, 
B-Kt2,  &c.    (Brien v.  Lowenthal.).    If  2  . .,  Kt-QB3;    3  Kt-KB3,  B-Kt5?;    See Col, 
8,  note  4. 

(10)  If  3PxP,  Q-I15.    (0.  E.  R.) 

(11)  3  . . ,  P X  P gives White a  good game. 

J. 

1 

d Table  150.— THE PAWN AND MOVE GAME. 
(Remove Black's King's Bishop's Pawn.) 

I P^K4,  Kt.QB8;     2  P.Q4 
7  8  9 

10 

^ 

P-Q4 

P-K3 

P-K4 

■PJ 

8 

P-K5       (1) 

Kt-KB3 

P-Q6 

(6) 

PxPI B.B4 

P-Q4 

QKt-K2 

Etxi> 

4 

B-QKt6 
Q-Q2 

P.K6 
KKt-K2  (2) 

B-KKt6 
KKt-B3 

P-KB4    (9) 

P.Q8 

Kt-B2 

5 

Kt-K2 

B-KKt5 

BxKt B-Q3 

(7) 

B-B4 

0-0-0 

P.KR3 

PxB P-KKtS KKt-R3 

S 

0-0 

B-R4 

Q.R5ch P.KR4 

B-K3     (10) 

P.QR3 

Q-Q2 

Kt-Kt3 

P-KR3 

P-B3 

B-Qa B-Q3 

Kt-KB3 

B-K3 

KKt-B3 

7 

BxB P-KKt3 

K-K2 

(6) 

B.Kt2 

B-Kt6ch 

^ 

QxB BxKt P.Q6ch 

— 

Kt-K2 

P.B8 

8 

P-K3 

KtxB 

13) 

KxP 

— 

Kt-KB3 

(8) 

B.R4 

9 

P.QB3+ 

Q-Kt3+ 

Kt-K2 

(1)  3  P X  P is  ^ot so good :  or  3  Q-E5ch,  I>-KKt3 ;  4  Q x  QP,  Q X  Q ;  5  P X  Q, 
KtxP4-.  (Salvio.)  If  3  Kt.QBS,  PxP;  4  P-Q6,  Kt-K4;  6  KtxP,  &o.  An attack approved in C.  P.  C is  3  B-QKt5,  P-K3 ;    4  Q-R6ch,  &o. 

(2)  Or  4  ..,P-KKt3. 

(3)  If  9  Kt-R4,  R-KKtsq;  10  0-0,  Kt-B4;  11  Kt-KBS,  Q.Kt2;  12  Kt-B3, 
P.B3;    13  Kt-K2,  B.K2,  &c. 

(4)  2  . . ,  P-Q3 ;    3  Kt-KB3,  B-Kt5  ?; 
PxP;    7KtxKtl,  (if)BxQ; 

(5)  If  3 B-QKt5, PxP?;    4  B x Kt,  QPx B 
4  B-QB4,  Q-B3  (Owen v.  Morphy). 

(6)  Better than  7  . . ,  Q-K2  or K-B2  on account of.  Salvio's move  8  P-Q6  with a 

strong attack. 

(7)  Or  5  BxKt,  QxB;    6  B.Q3,  P.KKt3 ;    7  P-KR4,  &c. 

(8)  If  9  P-QB4.  Kt-Kt5;  10  Q-Q2,  P.B4 ;  11  Kt-B3,  B.Q2;  12  0-0-0. 
P.^3,  &c. 

(9)  4Kt.KB3,KtxKtch;    SQxKt,  Kt-BS;    6  B.KKt5,  B.K2,  &c. 

<10)  If  6  Q-Q4,  B.K2 !  indirectly guarding the KKt Pawn :  or  6  Kt-KBS* 
B»B4.  Ac 

4  P.Q5,  Kt-K4;    5  Boh,  P.B3;    6  PxP, 
8  B X  Pch+ .    If  2  . . ,  P.KKt3 ;    3  P-KR4,  &c. 

5  Q-RSch-f :    if  3  Kt-KB3,  P X jP ; 

*^76  GAMES AT ODDS. 

Table  160.— THE PAWN AND MOVE GAME. 
(Remove Black's King's Bishop's Pawn.) 

11 

12 

13 

14 

16 

1 

P-K4 
Kt-KR8  ? 

P-Q4       (8) 

P-B4? 

(5) 

P-KKtS  (7) 

Kt-KB3  (9) 

2 

P-Q4 

(I) 

Q-R5ch P-Q4 

Kt-QB3 

Kt-B2 

P-KKt3 

B-Kt2 

P-K3 

8 

P-QB4 

(2) 

P-K54 

QxBP P-KR4 ! 

P-K4 

P-K3 

P-K3 

Kt-QB3 

P.K4 

B-Kt5 

4 

Kt-QB3 

P-B4       (4) 

Kt-KB3 

P-QB3 

B-KKt5 

P-B3 

(3) 

B-Kt6ch P-K4 

Kt-K2 

P-KR3 

K P-Q5 

Kt-QB3 

Q-B3 

PxP? 

BxKt P-Q3 

0-0 

B-Kt5 

BxP QxB 

6 

P-KB4 
Kt-QR8 

— 

Kt-B8 
P-Q3 

Q-Kt3 
Q-K2 

(6) 

P-KB4 
B-Kt2 

P-K5 

Q-B2 

7 

Kt-KB3 

B-Q3 

P-B34- 

B-B4 

B-Q3 

P-KKt3 

Kt-B3 

QKt-B3 

0-0 

B-Q3 

0-0 

P-R5 

Kt-B3 

8 

B-Kt2 

BxKt P.Q3 

Kt-B3 

0-0+ 

PxB+ 

Kt-KRS-f 

0-0+ 

9 

Kt-K2 

(1)  Better than  2  Kt-QB3;^    If  2  P-KB4  ?,  P-K4. 

(2)  If a  B-QB4,  P-K3 :    after the text move or  3  B.Q3,  P-K3  or  4  may follow. 

(3)  4  ^ . ,  P-B4 ;  5  P-Q5,  P-Q3 ;  6  P-B4,  Kt.QR3 ;  7  Kt-B3,  P-KKt3 ;  8  P-KR4, 
B-Kt2;  9P-R5,  P-K4;  10  RPxP,  RPxP:  llBxR,  BxR;  12  B.Q3,  Q.B3. 
(Devinck v.  St.  Amant.) 

(4)  Bricn v.  Lowenthal :    or  4  B-K3  may be played.- 

(5)  This is better in the-Pawn and Two Moves game.  It may be played on the second move,  viz. :— 1  ..,  P-K3;  2  P-Q4,  P-B4;  3  Qch,  Bj*:Kt3;  4  Q-K5, 
Kt-KB3 ;  5  B-KKt5,  BK or Kt2  ;  6  B x  Kt,  B x  B  ;  7  Q x  BP,  Kt-B3 ;  8  P-QB3, 
P-Q3  and  0-0 :    or  3  P x  P,  Q-R4ch :    or  3  Kt-KB3  or P-Q5  is playable. 

(6)  Or  6  . . ,  Kt-B3  ;    7  P-B3+.    This variation. is given by Mr.  Potter. 

(7)  1  . . ,  P-QKt3  follows the Fianchetto Defence  (See Table  155) :  Do Vero v. 
Steinitz continued :—  2  P-Q4,  B.Kt2 ;  3  B-Q3,  Kt-QB3 ;  4  Kt-KB3,  P-K3 :  6  0-0, 
&c.    The Ck)l.  ^is from Cochrane's Treatise :     Staunton gives  5  B-QB4. 

(8)  1  P-QB4,  P-K4;     2  P-Q3,  Kt-KB3;     3  Kt-QB3,  P-B3;     4  P-K3,  P.Q4 
6PxP,  PxP;    6  B-Q2,  Kt-B3,  &c.     Compare the English Opening,  p.  263. 

(9)  1  . . ,  P-Q4  ;    2  P-QB4  as in the Queen's Pawn game to White's advantage or  2  P»K3,  Kt.KB3,  &c.    The Col.  is Do Vero v.  Steinitz. 

SECTION II. 

Table  161.— THE PAWN AND TWO MOVES GAME. 
(Remove Black's King's Bishop's Pawn.) 

1   P-K4,  ...;     2   P.Q4. 
2  8  4 

10 

P-K3 
B-Q3 

(1) 

P-B4  ! 
P-K5? 

(2) 

Q.R4ch B-Q2 

(3) 

Q-Kt3 
Q-R5ch K-Qsq Q-B7 

(4) 

Kt-K2 
Kt-QB3 

PxP Kt-Kt6 

Q-B4 
Kt-KB3 

P-Q5 

P-Q3 

P-QB4    (6) 
P-KKt3 
P-KR4 

B-Kt2 
P-R6 

P-K4 

Kt-QB3 

Kt-Q2 

Px|KtP PxP RxR4- 

P-QB3    (8) 

P-KKt3 

P-KB4 

P-Q4 

P-K5 

Kt-KR3 

Kt-KB3 

Kt-B3 

0-0 

B-K2 

K-Rsq -f P-QB4 

P-B4! 
P-Q5 

P-Q3 
P-KB4 

Kt.KR3 
Kt-QBS Kt-B2 
Kt-B3 

B-K2 
B-Q3 

Kt-QRS 
0-0 
00 
P-K5+ 

QKt-B3  (5)     BxR      (7) 

Kt-QB3  (9) 

Kt-KB3 

P-Q4 

P-K5 

B-Kt5ch Kt-B3 

KKt-K2 

B-Q3 

0-0 

BxPch(lO) 

KxB Kt-KKt5ch K-Kt3 

P-KR4-f 

(TT) 

(1)  Better than  3  P-KB4  played in Philidor's time.  See Col.  14.  If  3  Kt.QB3 
P.KKt31:    if  3Qch?,  P-KKt3;    4  Q-K5,  Kt-KB3,  &c. 

(2)  Or  3  . . ,  P-Q3 ;    4  Kt-KB3 ;    Q-K2  approved by Mr.  Potter.    If  3  . . ,  P-Q4 ; 

4  P.K6.  P.KKt3  (or  4  ..,  Q-Q2  :     or  4  ..,  Kt-K2  ;     6  B-KKt5 :  if  4  ..,  Q.R6; 

5  *Kt-KB3) ;     6  P-KR4,  P.B4 ;    6  P-R6,  P-B5  ;    7  P x  P,  P  ^  B ;  8  R x  P,  P x  P or B-Kt2 ;    9  Q-R5  and wins. 

(3)  If  4  ..,  P-KKt3;  5  P-KR4,  PxP;  6  P-KB4,  Kt-K2;  7  P.R5,  B-Kt2; 
8Q-Kt4+. 

(4)  Staunton gives  7  E:t-QB3,  PxP;    8  Kt-K4. 

<5)  11  0-0,  P-QE3 ;     12  Kt-Q6,  K-B2  ;    (if)  13  Q-B4,  Kt-Q4,  &o. 

(6)  Or  5  P-K5,  to follow witH  6  Qch,  (if)  P-KKt3 ;    7  BxPch,  &c. 

(7)  11Q-Kt4,  Kt-Bsq;    12  Q-Kf.3,  B-il3 ;     13  Kt-B3,  &c. 

(8)  If  4  PxP,  Q-R4ch.  It  4  Q-B6ch,  P-KKt3;  5  Q-K5,  Kt-KBS  ;  6  B-KKt5. 
B-K2 ;  7BxKt,  BxB;  8Qx BP,  Kt-B3  ;  9  Kt-KB3,  B.K2  ;  10  Q-QKt5,  0-0, 
&o.     {Handbuch.) 

(9)  3  . . ,  B-Kt5ch gives Wliite a  good game. 

(iqV Or  8  B-KKt5,  Q-Ksq  (Szen v.  Labourdonnaia). 

(ll)  10  ..,Q-Ks(i;  llPch,K-E3;  12  Q.B2,  B:t-B4;  13  PJCKt4,  QKtxQPj 
14  KKt X Pdis cii,  K.B2 ;    16  Kt x Kl,  &c. 

278 

GAMES AT ODDS. 

I Table  162.— THE PAWN AND TWO MOVES GAME. 
(Remove Black's King's Bishop's Pawn.) 

1    P.K4, 

,  ...  ;      2    P Qi. 

1 

2 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10      ■ 

P-Q8 

P-QB4 

Kt.QB3  (8) 

i 

3 

B-Q3 

P-KB4 

W Q.R5ch  (6) 

P-Q5 

P-KB4    ^ 

Kt-QB3  (1) 

P.K8 

P-KKta Kt-K4 

P-Q4     (10) 

4 

P-K5 

B.Q3 

QxBP P-KB4 

P-K5     (11) 

I>-KKt3 

(2) 

Kt-K2 

Kt-QB3 

Kt-B2 

B-B4 

5 

P-KB4 

Kt-KB3 

P-QB3 !  (6) 

B.Q3! 

(9) 

Kt-KB3 

PxP P-Q4 

P-K4 

P.K4 

P-K8 

6 

QPxP P-K6 

Q-B4 

Kt-KB3 

B-Q3 

B-K3 

P.B4 

P-QKt4  (7) 

P-Q3 

EKt-K2(12) 

7 

Kt.KB3 

P.B3 
bKt-B3" 
00  + 

QxF P-B4 

P-QBS Q.Q2 

(3) 

R-Ktsq Kt-B3 

Kt-Kt3 

8 

Q-Q3 

Kt-B3 

BxB PxP P-B3 

PxB PxP 

0-0 

+ 

Q-Q3 

9 

Kt.Kt5 
Q-Qsq+ 

Q-Q2 
0-0  + 

10 

B-K2 

(1)  8  ..,  P-K9;  4  Kt.KB3,  Kt-K2l;  5  P-KR4,  P-KKt3;  6  P-R5,  R-Ktsq. 
(Potter). 

(2)  4  ..,  PxP;  6  P-Q5,  ICt-KtS;  6  Qch,  K-Q2;  7  Q.Kt4ch,  &c.  If  4  ... 
KtxQP;    5Qch,  K.Q2;    6  Q.Kt4cli,  Kt-K3 ;    7B.B4or5+. 

(3)  Black will castle on Queen's side and have a  good game. 

(4)  Or  3  P-QB4  :    or  3  P-K5,  (if)  PxP;    4  Q-R5ch  (Staunton). 

(6)  3  PxP,  Q-R4ch;  4  Kt.QB3,  QxP;  6  B-Q3,  &c.  Or  3  P-Q5,  P-QS; 
4  P-KB4  to-be followed by Kt-KB3  (Potter). 

(6)  If  5  P-KB3,  P-K4 ;  6  Q-Q5,  PxP ;  7  B-QB4,  Q-K:2  thenee to-  K-Kt2:  or 
?  ..,  Q.B4ch to simplify. 

(7)  If  6  . . ,  Kt-B3 ;    7  B-Kt5+.    Black plays for chances. 

(8)  2  . . ,  P-KKt3  is a  very risky defence ;    3  P.KR4,  B-Kt2 ;    4  P-RS,  &c. 

(9)  If  5  P-B4,  P-K3;  6  Kt-B3  is better than  6  PxP,  and exchaaging Queens. 
(Staunton.) 

(10)  Or  3  . .,  P.K3  and afterwards P-Q4  (B.  C.  M.,  1881,  p.  201). 

(11)  If4Q-E5ch,  r-KKt3;  5QxQP,  QxQ;  6  PxQ,  KfcxP with fl.  (airgamo. 
Another variation is i  P-B6,  Kfc-B3 ;  5  P.K5,  Kt-K5 ;  6  Qch,  V-KKld :  7  I*  x B, 
B«Kt2 ;    8  P X Pdir.  oh,  K-Bsq  ;    9  P-B3,  Q-Ksg,  &c. 

(13)  Or  6  . .,  Kt-B3  and B»K2  as given by Staunton. 

GAMES AT ODDS.  279^ 

Table  163.— THE PAWN AND TWO MOVES GAME. 
(Bemove Black's King's Bishop's Pawn.) 

r m 

1 

P.K4 

r 

11 

IS 

18 

14 

1^ 

2 

P-Q4 

P-KB4 

Kt-KB3  (9) 

Kt-QB3 

P-K8 

P-Q4 

Q B-Q3 
P-Q4 

Kt-QB3  (6) 
P-K4       (7) 

Kt-KB3 
P-Q4 

P-E5 

P-K4 

■    P-B4 

4 

P-K5 

P-KB4 

(2) 

PxP P-K5 

P-B3 

B-K3 

PxQP 

(3) 

KtxP P-B4 

Kt-QB3 

5 

Kt-KB3 

P-K6 

P-B4 

P-Q4 

P-Q4 

Q-Q2 

Kt-R3 

(4) 

Kt-B2 

Kt-QB3 

B.-Kt6 

6 

P-QB3    (1) 

BxP? 

B-B4 

P-B3 

B-K«4 

0-0-0 

RxB KKt-R3 

Q.'KtS p-ki 

7 

P-QKt4 

Q-R5ch Q-Q4! 

Q-Kt3 

B-Kt5 

P-KKtS B-K2? 

Kt-R3 

a P-QR4+ 

QxPch QxKtP B-Q3 

R-B2 

B-B3 

P-B5 

9 

Kt-KB8 

BxKtch QxQ Kt-K2 

KtxB PxQ 

10 

Q-R5 

Q-Kt4 

B-B24- 

P-Q3 

(6) 

P-Q4       (8) 

B-Q2 

(1)  Or6Kt-Kt5!.  U then  6  ..,  KtxQP;  7BxRP:  if  6  •. . ,  i>.KKt3  or B-B4 1 
7P-QB3.  ■     ' 

(2)  Or  4  P.Q5,  QKt-K2 ;    5B-Kt5:    or  4  PxP,  KtxP;    5  r.KB4  or Q-R6ch. 

(3)  If4  ...PxBP;  5BxP,  KtxP?;  6  Qch,  «fec.  If  4..,  KtxP:  6  Qch, 
K-K2;  6  QxPch,  Kt-K3;  7  P-B5,  P-Q3  (0.  E.  R.)  If  4  ..,  P-Q3;  5  F.Q5, 
QKt-K2 ;  6  Kt-B3  or R3,  or P-B5  + .  After P-KB4,  Kt-KR3  will generally be foumd satisfactory  (Tinsley). 

(4)  If  5  . . ,  P-KKt3  ;    6  P-KR4,  &c. 

(5)  11  Kt-Kt6,  B-Kt5 ;    12  Kt x  R,  B x  Q with at least an equal game. 

(6)  3  Kt-QB3  is better,  in reply to  2  . . ,  Kt-QB3  than to  2  . . ,  P-K3.  Or  3  Kt-KB3 
(if)P-Q4;  4PxP,  QxP;  5  Kt-B3,  Q-KR4 ;  6  B-K2+.  Another alternative is 
3  P-QB3  approved by Steinitz. 

(7)  3  ...,  P-K3;  4  Kt-B3,  p.Q3;  5  B-KB.  P.KKt3:  6  B.QB4  or P-KB4. 
(B.  C.  M.,  1892,  p.  279.) 

(8)  1,1  Q-B3,  BxKtch;    12PxB  +  . 

(9)  If  1  T'  K3  ...  2 B^Q3>  Kt.KR3;  3 Kt-KBS, Kt.B2;  if  3  . ,.  P.Q3:  4 Kt-K^v?? 
P-KJvt3;    6KtxP,&c.  ^  '^^--, 

^0  GAMES AT ODDS. 

I SECTION III 

% 

THE ODDS OF A   KNIGHT. 

BOOK knowledge is of little practical value to a  Student in playing witn the odds of a  Knight.  If he accepts an open game such as the Evans,  or King's Gambit,  and conducts it on regular lines,  the first player will bring a  Rook into early action instead of the missing Knight, 
and the substitution is a  decided advantage in certain combinations.  If, 
on the other hand,  he plays a  close game,  there is a  centre of Pawns which permit the odds-giv«r to arrange his pieces in the best possible manner for his superior skill in a  side attack.  Both these methods of play are admirably illustrated in Lowenthal's collection of Morphy's Games. 
Either way White,  with the advantage of the first move,  ought to obtain a  good position sooner or later.  On the principle better later than sooner 
(from the weaker player's point of view)  Mr.  Keichhelm has laid down,  in Brentano's Monthly y some lines of play for the conduct of the defence,  upon which,  with variations from extraneous sources,  we have constructed the following columns.  They must only be regarded as an outline of the best method of meeting initial difficulties.  The main struggle between position and force comes later in the game,  and would require a  much larger treatise to elucidate. 

It will however be seen from our columns that when a  Knight is given the opponent's move P-Q4  is much strengthened,  and that this consider- 
ation largely governs the choice of his opening moves.  Mr.  Reichhelm's ideal position for the second player resembles that obtainable in the French Defence,  but with an open centre.  (See Col.  1,  Note  4.)  In, 
this respect he confirms the opinion expressed by older masters. 

Table X64.— THE ODDS OF QUEEN'S KWQHT. 
(Remove White's Queen's Knight.) 

w 

^ 

2 

8 

4 

5 

I 

1 

P-K4 

P-K4       (I) 

2 

Kt-B3 
P-Q4       (2) 

P-KB4 
P-Q4! 

PxP 

3 

PxP P.K5 

KtxP     (5) 
Q-K2 

PxQP QxP Kt-B3 
"     P-KKt4 

Kt-K2?      • 

4 

Kt-K5     (3) 

P^Q4 

Kt-B3 

B-B4 

B.B4 

QxP P-KB3 

P.K6 

P.Kt5 

P-Q4 

5 

P-Q4 

Kt-Q3 

Kt-K6 

0-0 

PxP PxP en pas PxP B-fe3 

PxKt KtxP 

6 

KtxQP Kt-B4 

B-K2 

QxP 

0-0 

B-K2 

P.KB4 

B-QB4! 

Q-B3 

B-K2 

7 

B-K2 

Q-R5ch P.K5 

P-Q4 

Kt-KB3 

P-KKt3 

QxP 

0-0 

8 

0-0 

KtxP Q-B2 

BxPch KxB 

(6) 

P-B3 

0-0         (4) 

B-KKt5 

9 

Kt-B4 

P-Q4 

Q-Q3       (8) 

QxQ+ 

Q-B4! 

(7) 

(1)  Black may also play the French or Sicilian Defence or King's Fianohetto on lines previously given in Book V.  on  "  The Close Game." 

{2)2..,P.Q3;  3B-B4,  P.QB3;  4  P-B3,  P-Q4!  (Staunton).  Other defences follow the normal lines» 

(3)  If  4  Q-K2,  Q-K2 ;  5  Kt moves,  KKt-BS foUowed by Q-Qsq and B.Q3. 
Compare Table  5» 

(4)  To follow with Q  home,  P.B3  and Q-B2,  QKt  (by Q2)  to Q-Kt3,  B-KS,  B4, 
or.Kt5,  and development of the Books as time and opportunity permit. 

(5)  If  3P-Q4,  PxKP;  4  KtxP,  B-Q3;  5  P-KB4  (or Kt-B4  C.  E.  R.),  PxP en pas ;    6  Kt x  P  (B3),  Kt-KB3 ;    7  B-K2,  0-0 -f- . 

(6)  Or  8  . . ,  K-Qsq ;    9  P-Q4,  Q x  Pch ;    10  K-Rsq,  B-R3,  &c. 

(7)  Given by Steinitz.  If  9  . . ,  Q x  Pch ;  10  B-K3,  Q-B3 ;  11  Q-R5ch,  Q-KKt3 ; 
12  R X  Pch,  Kt-KB3 ;  13  R x  Ktch,  K x  R ;  14  B-Q4ch,  K-K2  ;  16  R-Ksq ch-f- . 
See Table  97,  Note  4,  where White's QKt obstructs. 

(8)  Continued  9  . . ,  B x  Kt ;  10  R x  B,  P-QB4 ;  11 B x  P,  Kt.QB3 ;  12  QR-KBsq, 
PxP;  13R-R3,Kt.B3;  14  B-QB7I,  QxB;  15  BxKt,  P.KKt3;  16  QxKtPch, 
and R  mates  (Rosenthal). 

282  GAMES AT ODDS. 

Table  165.— THE ODDS OF QUEEN'S KNIGHT. 
(Remove White's Queen's Knight.) 

6 

? 

8 

9 

10 

^ 

1 

P-K4 

P.QB3 

P-KB4 

(4) 

P-K4 

(7) 

P-K4 

P-K4 

P-K4 

(5) 

P-K4 

2 

B-B4 
B-B4 

Q-B2 
P-Q4 

Kt-B3 
P-K5 

(6) 

Kt-KB3 
P-Q3 

Kt-KB3 

8 

Q-K2 

Q-K2 

P-Q3 

Kt-K5 

P-Q4 

Kt-KB3 

(1) 

P-Q4 

Kt-KB3 

P-Q3 

P-KB4 

4 

P-B4 

PxP B-Q2 

Kt-B4 

PxKP 

(8) 

BxKt? 

B-Q3 

P-B4 

P-Q4 

BPxP 

5 

RxB P-Q4orKB4 

0-0-0 

Kt-K5 

Kt-Kt5 

PxP 

0-Q+ 

Q-R4       (3) 

B.Q3 

+ 

P-Q4 

6 

P-Q4 

K-Ktsq P-K6 

0-0 

Kt-B3 

B-B4 

7 

QBxP P-KR3 

Kt-B7 

P.(54! 

(2) 

B-K8 

Q-B3 

8 

P.K3 

Q-K2 

B.K2 

QBxP P-KKt4 

KtxR d 

0-0-0 

(9) 

(1)  3  , . ,  Kt.QB3 1    See Table  75,  Note  1. 

(2)  7  . . ,  Kt X  P ;  8  Q X  Kt,  R-Ksq ;  9  B-K5,  P-Q3 ;  10  R-KBsq,  R.K2  (B-KS t); 
11  0-0-0,  P X  B ;    12  P X  P,  Q-Bsq ;    13  R x  P-f .    (Macdonnell v.  Amateur.) 

(3)  This Col.  is arranged by Senor Vasquez,  to avoid exchanging pieces.  If now 
6..,Kt-B3;  6P-KB4,B-Q3:  7P-KKt3,0-0;  8P-K4,Q.B2;  9  P-BS,  &c.  (B.  0.  Jf., 
1892,  p.  11). 

(4)  If  1  P-Q4,  P-Q4 ;    2  B.B4,  P-K3,  &c.,  on the usual lines. 

(5)  To keep an open centre. 

(6)  Or  2  P-K4  I transposing into Cols.  3—5.     If  2  PxP,  P.Q3  as in Prom's Table  137,  playing for a  counter attack. 

(7)  Black  (not White)  gives Kt in this column,  so rem(3ve Black's Queen's Knight. 

(8)  Compare Table  10,  Note  6. 

(9)  10  Kt.E3,  Kt-K2;  11  P-KR3,  KI-B4;  12  P-KKt4,  Kt.Q5;  13  Q-Qsq, 
Kt-B6ch  ;    14  K-K2,  P-Q5  and wins.    (Duffy.) 

(6)  C Gambit, 

GAMES AT ODDS. 

283- 

9 

Table  166.— THE ODDS OF KINO'S KNIGHT. 
(Remove White's King's Knjght.) 

11 

P-K4 

P-K4 
B-B4 

P-QB3 
Kt-B3 

(1) 

Kt-B3 
P-Q4 

(2) 

P-Q4! 
PxQP P-K5 
PxP QKtxP P-Q5 

(3) 

Kt-K4  + 

12 

Kt-KB3 

P-Q4 

KtxP PxP KtxP? 

0-0 

KtxQ BxPch K-K2 

B mates 

(4) 

13 

P-Q4 

PxP       (5) 
B-QB4 

B-B4 
P-B3 

PxP? 
Q.Kt3 

Q-B3 
0-0 

P-Q3 
KtxP P-QB3 
P.K6! 

PxP Kt-K4 

14 

B-B2       (7) 

Kt-KB3 

P-Q3 

B-B4 

0-0 

0-0 

K-Rsq P-Q3 

P-KB4 

Kt-B3 

P-B3 

Q-K2 

P-B5 

B-Q2 

P-KKt4 

15 

P-K8 
P-Q4 

P-Q4 
Kt-B3 

P-QB4 
PxQP KPxP PxP P-Q5 
Kt-K4 

Q-K2 
B-Kt5oh B-Q2 
0-0! 

BxB R-Ksq  ! 

Q-K2       (6)    K-Rsq     (8)    K-Qsq!    (9) 

(1)  Or  2  ..,P-Q4I  (0.  E.E.)  If  2..,  B-'B4;  3  0-0,  Kt-K2  may be played: 
if  3  P-QB3,  KtKBS ;   "4  P-Q3  I,  P-QB3 ;    5  0-0,  P-Q4+ .    See Table  79,  Cols.  24-26. 

(2)  To other moves Black replies with P-Q4  as in Col.  1. 

(3)  Or  6  . . ,  Px P.    (Keichhelm). 

(4)  Bird v.  Jacobsen.    Compare Col.  7,  also Tables  75  and  76. 

(4)  If  2..,P-Q4;  3  PxKP,  PxP;  4QxQch,  KxQ;  and White simplifies without a  compensating advantage:  if  3  Kt-B3,  B-Kt5;  4  PxQP,  QxP-|-. 
(Beichhelm.) 

(6)  10B.K3,  BxB?;    11  B x Pch,  K-Bsq ; 
14  P-B4,    E-Rsq;      15  PxPdisch,  K-Ksq; 
K-B2;    18P-K6,.QxP;     19  Q-KKt3ch,  K-Q2 
K-Bsq ;    22  R-Q8ch and mates in three moves. 

(7)  If  2  Kt-B3,  P-QB3  ;    3  B-B4,  B-Kt5  ; 

12  B X  Kt,  BfKtS  ;    13  K-Rsq,  R x  B ; 

16  Kt-Q6ch,  K-Qsq;  17  Kt-B7ch, 
'  20  QR-Qsqch,  K-K2  ;  21  Q-KtSch, 
(Buckle V.  Amateur.) 

4  0-0,  Kt.B3  to follow with P^Q4, 
&c.  If  2  P-KB4,  P-Q4  ;  3  Kt.B3,  P-Q5  ;  4  Kt-K2  (ir4  Kt-Q5,  P-QB3+),  B-KKt5. 
(Reichhelm.) 

(8)  P-Kt5,  Kt-KKtsq ;     11  P.KR4,  P.B3,  &c.    (Mc.  Donnell v.  Cap.  Evans,) 

(9)  10  B-Kt5,  P-B3 ;    11  Kt x  P,  P x  KL-     12  R x  Q,  B x R ;    13  Q x  Pch,  Kt-Q2 ; 
14  P-QKt4,  P-KR3 ;    15B-B4-t-.    (Blackbume v.  Younger.) 

'284  CHESS OPENINGS. 

APPEN DIX. 

Page  47,  Note  1.     Black may also play  4...,  P-B4.     Seepage  126,  note  2. 
°    54,  After  4  Kt x  P,  P-KKt3  ;    6  B-QB4,  BKt2  has been suggested for trial. 
.     56,  Col.ll.    If6Q-K2,  Kt-Q5;  7KtxPcli,K-Qsq:  8Q.B4,  Kt-B6ch;    9  K-Qsq, 

QxBP  ;    10  B-K2,  Kt-K4  ;    (if)  11  Q-Q5,  Kt-KB3  ;    lOQxKt,  P-Q3,  &c.  " 
,.    57,  Col.  19.     See B.  C.  M.,  1892,  pp.  334-340  for a  Jong analysis by Mr.  Piercf^ 
..     65,  Note  2.    After  6...,  Q-B8,  7  P x  P may be played.     If  7  ...»  P-Q3 ;    8  B-KKt5. 
;,      „      „     13.     ForSPxQPreadoKPxP. 
,»     91,  Fill in the heading Diagram,  p.  87. 
,,  114,  Note  7.     A later note by Mr.  Pollock gives  15  ...,  P>^  B ;    16  P-B6,  Q-Ksq  ; 

17PxKt,RxRch;    ISRxR,  PxP;    19Q-R4;  P-Q4-;    20  B-K7,  B-K3  ; 

21  R-B8ch,  Q X  R  ;  •  22  B X  Q,  R X  B  ;  and Black ought to*  win. 
„  121,  Col.  4.    Mr.  G.  A.  Schott notes that it is better to play  10  Kt-QB3  before.Q-B3. 

Mr.  Blake,  however,  continues by  10  ...,  P x  Kt ;  11  Q-B3,  B-Kt5  !  &c.     See Deighton v.  Blake,  B.  C:  M.,  1893,  pp  240. 
„  126,  The variation named,  in the last paragraph,  3  ...,  QKt-K2  refers to Col.  27, 

4...,  QKt-15:2. 
„  126,  Note  3.     A game,  Tarrasch v.  Marco,  shows the disadvantage of delaying PxP:— 4...,  B-Q2;     5  Kt-B3,  Kt-B3  ;     6  0-0,   B-K2  ;     7.R-Ksq,   0-0?; 

8BxKt,  BxB;    9PxP,   PxP;    lOQxQ,  QRxQ;    llKtxP,  BxP?; 

12KtxB,   KtxKt;    13Kt-Q3!,    P-KB4 ;    14  P-KB3,  B.B4ch';    15KtxB, 

Kt X  Kt ;  16  B-Kt5,  and Black resigns.     Gunston v.  Blake played  4  B x  Ktch, 

PxB;   5P-Q4,  P-B3,  &c. 
„  131,  Col.  22.    After  3...,  KKt-K2  ;   4  Kt-B3  is probably the best continuation; 

if  4...,P-KKt3;  6P-Q4.  PxP;  6KtxP,  B-Kt2  ;  7  B-K3,  0-0;  8P-KB4, 

P-Q3  ;    9  0-0,  &c.,  compare with Mr.  Rees'  Analysis  (playing P-KKt3  on Black's third move)  in B.  C.  M.,  1891,  p.  476. 
„  134,  Note  3.     Or  9  ...,  P-Q4  !    If  7  ....  F-Q3  ;    8  PxKt,  KtxP;    9  R-Ksq, 

B-K21-;    10  KtxKt,   PxKt;    llQxQch,  KxQ;    12  RxP,  B.Q3,  &c. 

(Baird v.  Lasker. ) 
„  186,  Note  6.     Mr.   Blake plays  7  Kt-BS I,   (if j  KKt-BS  ;     8  P.K5,   KKt-Q4 ; 

9  KtxKt,  KtxKt;     10  Q-Kt3  ! 
„  J79,  A variation attributed by Mr.  Donaldson  ("Delta")  to an Indian Amateur, 

Cap.  J.  G.  Bell,  hence styled the Bello Gambit,  runs  :— 7  QKt-B3,  Q-Q5ch  ; 

8  K-Rsq  (or  8  R-B2),  QxB;  9  P-Q3,  Q-K3  ;  lOlBxP or Kt-QS.  See B.  C.  M.,  1891,  p.  512. 

„  212,  Note  2.     If  6  P-KKt3,  PxP;     7  K-Kt2,  B.Q3  ;    8  P-K5.  BxP;    9  Q-Ksq, 

Q-Q5  ;    10  B X  Pch,  K x  B  ;    11  Kt-KB3,  B-R6ch  ;    12  K x  B^  P-Kt5ch and wins. 
„  224,  Note  9.    After  3  Kt-R4  C.  M.  now declares  3  ...,  Bx.Pch unsatisfactory.    An analysis by J.  Berger is given in C.  M.,  May,  1893.     Tlie leading moves are 

4  K x  B,  Q.R5ch  ;    5  P-KKt3,  Q x  KP  ;    6  Q-Ksq  ! 
„  225,  Notes.     Or  6   ....   Kt-QB3  ! ;    7  B-Kt5,  Q-R5ch  ;     8  K-Bsq,   B-B4+.     If 

9  Kt-K2  (B.  0.  M.,  1892,  p.  445),  0-0;  10  BxKt,  PxB;  11  P-Q4, 
B-Kt3-1-  (Wayte).  Mr.  Wayte notes that after  5  ...,  P-KB4  the burden of equalising falls on  "White. 

„  229,  Col.   21.      Mr.    Ranken prefers  8  K-Bsq  !     If  11  Q-R5   (Pierce),    Kt-KB3  ; 

12  Q X  KtP,  P X  Kt ;     13  Q X  B,  R-KKtsq  ;     14  Q-R6,  R-Kt3  ;     15  Q x  BP, 

R-Kt5;     16  Q-B5,  RxPch;     17  Kt.K2,   Q-K2  ;      18  B-Kt5,  QKt-Kt5  ; 

19  Q-B3.     Mr.   Ranken continues by   19   ...,  Q-K4 ;     20  P-B3,    0-0-0; 

21  R-Qsq,  R-Ksq  ;    22  R-Q2,  Ktx P+. 
„  280,  l^ote  13.    After  7  ...,  B-Kt2;    8  P-K5,  P.Q4  ;    9  KBxP,  B-Kt5  ;    10  PxP, 

B-R6;    11  R-B2,  Q-R5+.      But White may play  8  QBxP!,    BxPch; 

9K-Rsq,  and if BxKt;    10  BxPch will draw  (Pierce)  :    8  ...,  KtxP is also unsatisfactory  :    8  ...,  P'Q4  to gain a  move is apparently Black's best. 

INDEX II PikOB Abbreviations,  Explanation of  . .               ..               ..               ♦*  ..18 

Allgaier Gambit.        Introduction              . .                . .                .t  . .     194 

1  P.K4,P-KB4;  2P-KB4,PxP;  3 Kt-KB3,  P-KKt4 ;  4  P.KR4,P-Kt5; 

6  Kt-Kt5,  P-KR3 ;    6KtxP,KxKt;    7QxP     (Allgaier)  ..     195 

7P-Q4     (Thorold)  ..     196 

V'B-QB4cM     (OurouESoff)  . .     199 

5  ...P-Q4,&c.;    5...P-KB3;   or5  ..,P-KR4            ..  ..     195 

Anderssen's Attack in the Evans Gambit  . .               .  -               . .  88,  100 

Opening  (1 P-QR3)                 ..               ..               ..  ..270 

Appendix                  ..                ..               ••               •-               •*  ••    284 

Bardeleben's Variation in the Vienna Opening  (3  B-B4)              . .  , .    227 

Benima's Defence in the Scotch Game  (4  ..,  B-K2)  . .               ,.  ..60 
Berlin Defence in the King's Bishop's Opening— 

1P-K4,P-K4;    2B-B4,  Kt-KBa         ..                ..                ..  ..148 

Bertin's,  or Three Pawns'  Gambit.     See Cunninghapi Gambit..  ..    201 

Bird's Defence in the Buy Lopez'  Knight's*  Game  (3  ...  Kt-Q5)  ..     185 

„      Opening  (1 P-KB4,  &c.)                  ..                ..                ..  ..265 

Bishop's Gambit.        See King's Bishop's Gambit       ..               ..  ..    205 

Blackbume's Variations in the Four Knights'  Game  . .                . .  . .    138 

Scotch Gambit  (7  Q-Q2,  &c.)       ..  ..57 

Blackmar's Gambits.        Introduction       ..                ..                ..  ..    220 

No.  1-1  P-Q4,  P-Q4  ;    2P-K4,  PxP;    3  P-KB3,  P x P or P.K3  or  4  243 
No.  2— 1  P-Q4,  P-KB4  ;     2P-K4,PxP;     3P-KB3,  PxP;     4Kt.xP, 

Kt-KB3;    5B.Q3        ..                ..                ..                ..  ..    262 

Boden-Kieseritzky Gambit.        Introduction               . .               . .  . .    164 

1P.K4,  P-K4;    2  B-B4,  Kt-KB3 ;    3Kt.KB3,KtxP          ..  ..165 

Books I.— The King's Knights' Opening                  ..               ..  ..19 

n.— The King's Bishop's Opening                   ..                ..  -.145 

III.— The King's Gambits                ..                ^.                ..  ..157 

IV. — Miscellaneous Gambits           . .               , ,               . .  . .    219 

v.— The Close Game    ..                ..                ..                .,  ..246 

VI.— Games at Odds      ..                ..                ,.                ..  ..271 

Bryan's Variation in the King's Bishop's Gambit       ..               ..  ..    208 

Calabrese Counter Gambit in King's Bishop's Opening— 

1  P.K4,  P-K4 ;  2  BB4,  PrKB4           ..'               ..                ..  ..163 

Calabrese Gambit.    1  P-K4,  P.K4 ;  2  P.KB4,  PxP;  3  Kt-KB3,  p.KKt4 ; 

4  B-B4,  B-Kt2 ;  5  PrKR4   . .                . .                . .                . . '  . .     169 

Calthrop's Variation in the King's Bishop's Gambit.  . .                . .  . .     208 

<}«ntre Counter Gambit.    Inti-oduction      ..                ..                ..  ..     220 

bJP.K4,  P.Q4,&c.              ..               ..               ..                ..  .,     244 
i 

286  INDEX. 

Ceatrci Gambit.    Introduction  . .                . .                , ,                ^  ^  gga 

1  P.K4.  P.K4 ;  2  P-Q4,  P x  P ;  3  Q x  P,  Kt-QB3                  !  [  [  ]    237 

3  Kt-KB3           . .                . .  ! !     238 

3B-QB4,&c.      ..                i.  !!     239 

Close.Game,  Book V.    Introduction and Summary of Sections  •.  .246-247 
Classical Defences,(so called). 

King's Bishop's Opening  (2  . . ,  B-B4)                    . .                . .  150-152 

King's Bishop's Gambit  (3  . . ,  Q-R5 ;  or  3  . . ,  P.Q4 ;  4  B x  P,  Q.R5)      210-213 

Cochrane's Gambit.    See Salvio Gambit  (6  . . ,  P-BO)                   . .  . .     174 

Coehrane's Variation in PetrofE's Counter Attack  (4  Kt x  P)        . .  . .      37 

,»  Do.  The Queen's Pawn Counter Gambit  (3  . ,,  Q.K2)    . .      31 

„          Variations in the Scotch Game,  (6  Kt x  BP and  6  P x  3P)  53,    66 

Compromised Defence.    See Evans'  Gambit,  Cols.  43-60              . ,  116-120 

Cozio's Defence in the King's Bishop's Gambit  (3  . . ,  Kt-KB3)    . .  . .     206 

Cunningham Gambit.        Introduction      . .                . .                . .  ^      201 

1P-K4,P.K4;    2P.KB4,PxP;    3  Kt-KB3.  B.K2  ;    4  B.B4,  B.K5ch '; 

5  K-Bsq      . .                . .                . ,-               . ,               , .,  ^     2Q2 

5  P-KKt3.    (Bertin and Stamma.)                . ,               . ,  203.204 

Cunningham  (J.  G.)    Variation in the Vienna Game  (4  Kt-Q5)  . ,  . .    ^^S Czank's Variation of the Salvio Gambit  (6  . .,  Kt.QB3)               ^.  . .     174 

Damiano Gambit.    See Introduction         . .               . .  . ,  . .      22 

1P.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt.KB3,  P.KB3 ;    3KtxP,  &c.  ..  (Col.  1)  .'.*      23 

Distinction from the Greco Counter Gambit. .  . .  . .      24 

Danish  (or Scandinavian)  Gambit.        Introduction   . »  . ,  . ,     236 

1P-K4,P-K4;    2P-Q4,  PxP;    3  P.QB3           ..  ..  ..241 

Double Fianchetto Defence  (1  P-K4,  P.QKt3  ;    2  P.Q4,  P-KKt3)  . .     267 

Double Buy Lopez.    See Four Knights'  Game            . .  . .  133,  140 

Douglas*  Defence in the Evans Gambit  (11  . . ,  Kt-K4)  . .  . .     115 

English Game.    See Staunton's Opening  . .                ..  ,.                ..45. 

English Opening.        Introduction             ..                ..  ..                ,,    '258 

1  P-QB4,  P-QB4,  P.K4  or  3,  P-KB4,  P.Q3,  and P-KKtS  . .  2(^  264 

Evans Gambit  (Part I.)        Introduction  ...               ..  ..               ...      87 

1  P.K;4,  P-K4;     2  Kt-KB3,  Kt.QB3 ;     3  B.'B4,  B.B4 ;      4  P.QKt4, 

BxKtP;    5  P-B3,  B-B4,  &c.        ..                ..  ..                ..90 

Variations before reaching the Normal position on page  87                      89-90 

Do.      following the Normal position             . .  (Cols.  8-45)  90-101 

Development of Defence by P-Q3  before Kt-KB3  . .                . .      88 

Evans Gambit  (Part II.)        Introduction                   ...  ,.                ..     102* 

1  P.K4,  P-K4;     2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3 ;     3  B.B4,  B.B4 ;     4  P-QKt4, 

BxKtP;    5P-B3,  B-R4               ..                ,.  ,.                ..104 

Variations springing from  6  Q-Kt3  and  6  0-0    . .  . .                104-115- 

Do.           do.                6P.Q4        ..                ..  ..                ..116 

The Compromised Defence.              ..                 ..  (Cols.  43-60)   116-120 

Evans Gambit Declined  (4  . . ,  B-Kt3  and  4  . . ,  P.Q4) . .  ; .               12I.128* 

INDEX.  287 

pftlkbeer's Counter Gambit — 

1  P-K4,  P.K4  ;    2  P-KE4,  P-Q4  ;    3  P x QP,  P-K5,  &c.  (Cols.  3-5). .    216 

Fegatello.    See Two Knights'  Defence       . .                . .  . .                66,    69 

Fianchetto Defences.    1  P.K3,  P-QKt8,.and P-KKt3..  ..                ..267 

Openings.    1  P-QKt3  and  1  ]f -KKt3          ..  ..                ..266 

Flechsig's Variation in the Four Knight$'  Game         . .  . .                , .     141 

Forsyth's Variation in the King's Bishop^'s Gambit  (3  B.Q3)  . .                . .     214 

Four Knights'  Game.        Introduction        . .                . .  . .                . .     137 

1P-K4,  P.K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3  ;    3  Kt-B3,  Kt-B3  ..                138-144 

Fraser's  (and Mortimer's)  Attack in the Evans Gambit  . .                88,    92 

t Attack in the French Game  (2  P-Q3)             . .  . .                . .     253 
(also Hollers)  Defence in the Greco Counter Gambit  (3  . .,  KtQB3)  24,    27 

Variation in the Bishop's Gambit.                  . .  (Col.  29,  30). .     211 

Do.               Scotch Gambit  (7  B-K3)       . .  . .                .,64 

Do.                       do.            (5Kt-KB3)  ..  ..               ..56 

Do.              Steinitz Gambit . .               . .  . .               . .    236 

Do.               Vienna Opening...               ..  ..(Col.  17)..     228 

Freeborough's Variations in the Allgaier Gambit.      . .         (Cols.  6-13, 17)  196-199 

French Defence.        Introduction                                 . .  . .                . .     248 

IP-K4,  P.K3;    2P-Q4,  P-Q4;    3  P x  P,  and Kt-QB3  ..                249-252 

3Kt.Q2,B.Q3,  andP-K6..  ..    .252 

2  P-K5,  P.Q3,  P-KB4,  and P.QB4  ..               ..    i253 

From's Gambit.        Introduction               ..               ..  ..               ..    220 

XP-KB4,  P-K4;    2PxP,  P-Q3;    3PxP,  BxP  ..               ..    242 

Fyfe Gambit  (1  P-K4,  P-K4  ;    2  Kt.QB3,  Kt.QB3  ;    3  P.Q4)  ..               ..227 

Games at Odds.        Introductions              . .               . .  . .              272,  280 

Games,  Illustrative.      40,  41,  44,  47,  50  (2),  64,  79  (2),  81,  96,  98,  101,  109, 
110, 112, 114,  119,  126,  128,  131,  132,  161,  188,  195,  197,  202,  216,  217, 
234,  235,  239,  243,  251  (2),  26.1,  262,  281,  282  (2),  283  (2). 

Ghulam Kassim's Variation in the Evans Gambit      . .  ♦ .               . .     104 

„        Attack in the Muzio Gambit  (5  P-Q4)  ..                176-177 

Gianuzio's Defence in the Bishop's GKmbit  (3  . . ,  P-KB4)  . .                205-207 

Giuoco Piano.        Introduction and Maxims                . .  . .                   75-76 

1  P-K4,  P.K4  ;     2  Kt-KB3,  Kt.QB3  ;      3  B-B4.  B-B4  ;  4  P.B3,  P.Q3, 

0-0,  and Kt-B3          . .               . .               . .  . .                   77-81 

•Garing's Attack in the Evans'  Gambit  (10  B-KKt5)    . .  . .               . .      91 

„       Gambit in the Scotch Game  (4  P-B3)           ..  ..               ,.65 

Greco Counter Gambit.        Introduction    . .               . .  - .               . .      24 

IP-K4,  P-K4;  2  Kt-KB3,  P-KB4  ;  3  P x  P,  Kt.B3,  Kt x  P,  and B.B4       25-29 

Hall's Variation in the Centre Gambit  (4  Q-B4)          . .  . .               . .     238 

Hamppe- Allgaier Gambit in the Vienna Opening  (5  P-KR4)  . .               . .     231 

Hamppe-Allgaier-Thorold Gambit  (8  P-Q4)                  ..  ..                ..231 

Hamppe's Opening.    See Vienna Opening                   ..  ..                ••     222 

Harvey's Variation in the Evans Gambit  (10  B x  Pch)  . .               • .      90 

Horny's Defence in the Allgaier Gambit  (8  . . ,  B.Q3) . .  . »              ..196 

288  INDEX. 

Horwitz's Attack in the Scotch Gambit  (5  Et-Rt5)     . . 
Hungarian Defence.        Introduction 

1P.K4,  P-K4;    2Kt.KB3,  Kt.QB3;    3  B-B4,  B-K2  !,  !.' 

Inversions.                . .  24,  74  (note  1),  148  (note  7),  153  (note  3),  223  (note  1),  258  m 

259  (note  1),  268  (note  1),  269  (note  6),  270  (note  2)  ■ 

Introduction General                 . .               . ,               . .               . .  . .  5 

Illustrative Games.    See Games Italian Game.    See Giuoco Piano             . ,               . .               .  ^  . .  75 

Irregular Openings  . .                . .               . .               . .               ^.  . .  270 

„      and Unusual Defences to the King's Knight's Opening. .  . .  22 

2  . . ,  P.KB3,  Q.B3,  B-Q3,  B-B4,  and P-QB3        . .               . .  . .  23 

Janisch's Counter Gambit in the Ruy Lopez Knight's Game  (3  . . ,  P-KB4)        136 

„     Variation in Staunton's. Opening  (3  ..,  Kt-B3)               ..  ..49 

Jerome Gambit.        Introduction               . .               . .               , .  . .      85 

1P.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt.QB3 ;    3B.B4,B.B4;    4BxPch  ..      8$ 

Kassim.    See Ghulam Kassim. 

Kieseritzky-Bryan Counter Attack in the King's Bishop's Gambit 

(4  ..,P.QKt4)' .,               ..               ..               ..               ..  ..    208 

Kieseritzky-Boden Gambit in King's Bishop's Opening               . .  . .     164 

Kieseritzky Gambit.       Introduction        ..               ..               ..  ..    182 

X P-K4,  P-K4;    2  P.KB4,  PxP;    3  3:trKB3,  P.KKt4;     4  P.KR4, 
6  Kt-K5 

5  . . ,  P-Q3  (Kolisch)  and  6  . . ,  P-Q4  (E.  Morphy)            . .  . .    18S 

6  . .,  Q.K2  (Rosenthal)  and  6  . .,  ?-K2  (Salvio,  Polerio,  Ac.)  186-186 
,6  ..,Kt-QB3  (Neumann)             ..               ..               ..  -.186 

6  . . ,  Kt.KB3  (Philidor)                . .               . .               . .  187-189 

6  ..,B-Kt2  (L.Paulsen)              ,.               ..               ..  ..190 

5  ..,P-KE4(Kieseritzky,&c.)      ..               ..               ..  ..192 

King's Bishop's Pawn Game  (Bird,  &c.)     ..               ..               ..  ,;    265 

King's Bishop's Pawn,  as a  Defensive Move               . .               .-.  . .      22 

King's Bishop's Gambit.        Introduction..               ..               ..  ..    205' 

1P-K4,  P-K4;    2P.KB4,  PxP;    3  B.B4, 

8  . .,  P-QB3  and Kt-KB3  (Lopez,  Cozio,  Lichtenhein,  &c.)  . .    206 

8  . . ,  P-KB4  (Lopez,  Gianuzio,  Salvio,  &c.)    . .               . .  . .     207 

3. . » ,  P-KKt4  and.  P-QKt4  (Bryan.  Kieseritzky,  Calthrop,  &c.)  . .     208 

8  ..,  Kt-QB3(Maurian)                ..               ..               ..  ..209 

3  . . ,  Q.R5ch ;  or  3  . . ,  P-Q4 ;  4  B x  P,  Q-R6  &c.,  (Classical Defences) 

210-213 

.3  B-K2  and S  B-Q3  (Forsyth)        ..                .,               ..  .,214 

King's Bishop's Openings  (Book II).        Introduction                  ..:  ..     145 

>,             Summary of Sections        ..               ..               ..  -.     147 

King's Fianehetto.-    (1  P-KKt3)                 . .               .  *               - .  . .    566 

King's-Gambits  (Book III).        Introduction               . .               , .  . .    167 
^            Nummary of Sections       ...              .« 

I I 

I 

159  M INDEX. 

'ing's Gambit  (Proper).        Introduction..                .,                .,  ..     160 

1P-K4,  P-K4;    2P-KB4,  PxP;    3  P-Q4,  P-KR4,  &c.,        .;  ..161 

3  Kt-KB3,  P-Q4,  P-KB4,  Kt.KB3,  Kt-K2  or QB3,  and P-KKt4  162-169 

King's Gambit Declined.        Introduction                   . .                . .  ...    215 

1  P-K4,  P-K4 ;    2  P-KB4,  P-Q4,  P-Q3,  KtKB3,  and B-B4     . .  216-218 

King's Knight's Defence in the King's Bishop's Opening             . ,  , .     148 

King's Knight's Gambit.    See Kieseritzky Gambit     . .               . .  . ,    182 

King's Knight's Opening  (Book I).        Introduction,  &c.              .^  ..19 

King's Rook's Pawn Gambit.    See King's Gambit  (3  P-KR4)      . .  . ,     161 

Kling and Horwitz's Defence in the Evans Gambit  (5  . . ,  Q-K2) . .  . .     ISO Koch and Ghulam Kassims's Attack in the Muzio Gambit.    (5  P-Q4)  176-177 

Kolisch's Defence in the Kieseritzky Gambit  (5  . . ,  P-Q3)           . .  . .    183 

Lange.    See Max Langa  ^ 

Lewis'  Counter Gambit in the King's Bishop's' Opening.  (Cols.  16, 17). .     151 

Lichtenhein's Counter Attack in the King's Bishop's Gambit  (3  . .,  Kt-Kfe3)     206 
Limited Bishop's Gambit  (3  B-K2)  ..  ..  ..  .214 

Lopez'  Counter Gambit :    1  P-K4,  P-K4 ;      2  Kt-KB3,  P-Q3 ;      3  B.B4, 

P-KB4  ..  ..  ..  ..  (note  1)..      29 

Lopez'  Gambit in the King's Bishop's Opening — 

1  P.K4,  P.K4 ;    2  B.B4,  B-B4;    3  Q.K2,  &c.     (Cols.  1,  2, 18, 19,  20)  148,  151 
Lopez-Philidor Defence — 

1P.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3  ;    3  B-Kt5,  P.Q3  ..  ..126 

Lopez'  Variation in the Bishop's Gambit  (3  . .,  Kt-KB3,  &c.)     . .  . ,    206 

Lopez'  Knight's Game  (1  P-K4,  P-K4 ;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3  ;    3  B-Kt5)      . .     124" 

Macdonnell's Variation in the Steinitz Gambit  (6  . .,  Q-K2ch)'    . .  . .    232 

Mackenzie's Defence in the Greco Counter Gambit.   . .  . .  (Col.  2)  . .      25 

Maurian's do.  King's Bishop's Gambit  (3  . . ,  Kt-QB3)  . .    209 

Max Lange's Attack.    ^  Introduction and Transpositions  . .  . .      82 

1P-K4,  P.K4;     ^  Kt.KB3,  Kt.QB3  ;     3  B-B4,  B-B4  ;      4  0-0,Kt.B3; 

6P-Q4        ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..83 

McDonnell's Attack in the Muzio Gambit  (5  Kt-QB3)  . .  . .     176 

.,         Double Gambit in the King's Bishop's Opening       ..  . .     162 

Meadow Hay Opening.    (Irregular)  , .  . .  •. .  . .     270 

Meitner's Variatioil in the Scotch Gambit  (7  Kt-B2) . .  . .  . .      68 

Minckwitz's Variation in the Steinitz Gambit  (6  . . ,  P-QKt3)      . .  . .     234 

Minor Principles      ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..16 

Miscellaneous Gambits.     Introduction,  and Summary of Sections  219-221 

Moller's  (also Eraser's)  Defence in the Greco Counter Gambit  (3  . .,  Kt.QB3)       27 
Morphy's Defence in the Kieseritzky Gambit  (5  . . ,  P-Q4)  . .  ...     183 

„       Variation in Staunton's Opening  (4  . . ,  P-Q3)  . .  ;. .      47 

Mortinler's Attack in the Evans Gambit.  . .  . .  . .  (Col.  19) . ,      92 

„  Defence in the Buy Lopez'  Knight's Game  (4  . . ,  Kt-K2)  .-.     133 

Mu2io Gambit.        Introduction  . .  . .  .  ^  . .     175* 

1  P-K4,  P.K4  ;    2  P.KB4,  PxP ;    3  Kt-KB3,  P-KKt4 ;   4  B.B4,  P-KtS; 

5  B X  Pen,  Kt-BS,  P-Q4,  aiid  0-0. .  . .  .  •  176.181 

29D INDEX. 

idsl Keumann's Defence in the Kieseritzky Gambit  (5  . . ,  Kt-QB3)    . . 

Normal position in the Evans Gambit.    Part I.          . .  (Diagram) . .  87 

„                 „           Compromised Defence.    Part II.  (Diagram)..  118 

Notation,  Explanation of          . .                . .               . .  . .               . .  17 

Odds of a  Knight     . .                . .                .  •               . .  . .               . .  280 

Ourousoff's Attacks in the Allgaier Gambit                 . .  ..             195,  199 

„          Variation in the King's Bishop's Opening  . ,               ...  148 

Pagan's Variations in the Allgaier Gambit.  ..  (Cols.  14, 15)..    I Paulsen  (L.)    Attacks in the Scotch Gambit,  (7  Q-Q2  aad  7  B-QKt5)  . .      5' 
Attack in Philidor's Defence  (5  P x  P) 

Defence in the Evans Gambit  (10  . . ,  Kt-K2)                 . .  . .      99 

„             Kieseritzky Gambit  (5  ..,  B-Kt2)           ..  ..190 

„             Muzio Gambit  (11  ..,  Q-B4)..               ..  ..180 

Variation in the French Defence  (3  Kt-QB8)                  ..  *.    260 

Vienna Opening  (3  P-KKt3)                  ..  ..227 

Paulsen  (W.)    Variation in the Centre Gambit  (4  Q-K3)             ..  .•237 

Pawn and Move Game              . .               . .               . .               . .  . .    272 

Pawn and Two Moves Game      ..                ..               ..               ..  272,277 

Petrofi's Counter Attack.        Introduction..               ..               ..  ..32 

1P-K4,  P-K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt.KB3  ;    3  Kt x  P,  P-Q4  &c.  ..      33 

Transpositions,  and resemblance to the French Defence. .  32,  36 

Philidor's Defence in the King's Knight's Opening,        Introduction  . .      38 

1P-K4,P-K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  P-Q3 ;    3  P-Q4,  P.KB4,  &c.       ..  39-41 

Philidor!s Defence in the Kieseritzky Gambit  (5  . . ,  Kt-KB3)      . .  . .     187 

Do.                      King's Gambit  (4  . . ,  B-Kt2)                 . .  . .     163 

Transpositions in his King's Knight's Game        . .  . .     38,  40,  41,  43 

Pianissimo.    See Giuoco Piano                  . .                . .               .  •  . .      75 

Pierce. (W,T.)    Gambit in the Vienna Opening  (5  P-Q4)             ...  229-230 

Variations:  Boden-Kieseritzky Gambit                ..               ..  ..    JL56 

Evans Gambit                  ..               ..               ,.  Ill,  119 

Scotch Gambit                 ..                ..               ,.  ..58 

Polerio's Defence in the Kieseritzky Gambit  (5  , . ,  B-K2)            . .  . .    185 

Polerio Gambit.    See King's Gambit       ..               ..               ..  ..161 

Ponziani's Opening.     See Staunton's Opening           . .               . .  . .      45 

„         Counter Attack in Stjiunton's Opening  (3  ...  P-B4)    . .  . .      46 

Potter's Minor Principles          ..               ...               ..               ..  ..16 

„       Variatione in Staunton's Opening..               ..               ..  49-50 

„             the Evans Gambit  ..               ..               ..  ».     120 

Principles                 ••               ••               ♦'                ••               ••  13.16 

Pulling^s Variation in the Scotch Gambit  (4  . . ,  Q-R5)                . .  . .      54 

Quaada's  (Gambit,    Sec King's Ganibit     ..  ..  ..(note  11)..    162 

Queen's Bishop's Pawn Defence in the King's Bishop's Opening. .  . .    152 

Queen's Bishop's Pawn Game.    See Staunton's Opening            ..  ..      45 

Queen's Fiauchetto  (1  P'QKt3)  ..  ..  •• 

i INDEX*  291 

It ueen's Ganabit.        Introduction              ..                ..                .«  ,.  220 

1P-Q4,  P-Q4;     2P-QB4,PxP           ..                ,.                .•  ..  245 

Queen's Gambit Declined.    See Queen's Pawn Game                  ..  ..  261 

Queen's Knight's Opening.    See Vienna Opening       . .                . ,  . .  222 

Queen's Pawn Counter Gambit.        Introduction        . .                . ,  . .  30 

1  P-K4,  P-K4  ;    2  Kt-KB3,  P-Q4  ;    3  P x  P I and Kt x  P   . .  . .  31 

Queen's Pawn Game.        Introduction       . .                . .                . .  . .  258 

1  P-Q4,  P-Q4  ;     2  P-K3,  Kt-QB3,  Kt-KB3,  P-QB4,  and B-B4  259-261 

1  . .,  P-KB4  ;      2  P-QB4,  Kt.KB3.  P-K4,  B.KKt5,  and P.KKt3  . .  262 

Ranken's Variations in the Four Knights'  Game        .  *                . .  , .     142 

References,  Explanation of                          . ,                . .                . .  . .      18 

Richardson's Attack in the Evans Gambit                   . .                , .  114-115 

Riviere's Opening  (1 P-Q4,  P-KB4)             ..                .,.                ..  ..262 

Rook's Pawn Gambit.    See King's Ganibit                  . .                . .  . .     161 

Rosenthal's Defence in the Kieseritzky Gambit  (5  . . ,  Q-K2)        . ,  . .     185 

„          Variations in the Evans Gambit Declined                  .«  ..     121 

Rosentreter's Gambit.    See King's Gambit  . .  . .  (note  12) . .     162 

Russell's Variation in the Scotch Game  (8  P-KKt3)    . ,                . .  13,  62 

„       Defence in the Vienna.  Opening  . .                .,                ..  ..     228 

Russian Defence.    See PetrofE's Counter Attack         . .                . ,  . .      32 

Ruy Lopez'  Knight's Game.        Introduction              . .                . .  . .     124* 

1P.K4,P-K4.;  2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3 ;  3  B.Kt5,  P-Q3,  and B-B4  ..     126 

3  . . .  P.QR3 ;  KKt-K2,  and Kt-B3  126-133 

3  ...Kt-Q5;  Q-B3,  B-Q3,  P-B4. 

and P-KKt3       . .  135-136 

Salvio'a Defence ia the Bishop's Gambit  (3  . . ,  P-KB4)  . ,  ..206 

„  „  Kieseritzky Gambit  (5  . . ,  B-K2)  , .  , ,     185 

Salvio Gambit.        Introduction  . .  . .  . .  . .     X70 

1P-K4,  P-K4;    2P-KB4,  PxP;    3  Kt-KB3,  P.KKt4  ;    4B-B4,  P.Kt5; 

5  Kt-K5,  Q-R5ch  ;  6  K-Bsq,  Kt-KB3,  Kt-KRS,  Kt-QB3,  P-B6,  &c.  171-174 
Sanders'  Defence in the Evans Gambit  (7  . .,  B-Q2)   . .  ..  ..     i08 

Scandinavian Gambit.    See Danish Gambit  . .  , .  236,  241 

Schmidt's Variation of Staunton's Opening  (5  P-Q5) . .  >     ,.  ,.46 

Schoumoff 's        „      in the Scotch Game  (9  . . ,  P-Q4)  . ,  . .      63 

Schuloff's  „      in the Salvio Gambit  (6  ..,  Kt-QB3)  ..  ..174 

Scotch Game or Gambit.        Introduction  . .  . .  . .       52* 

1P-K4,P-K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3 ;    3P-Q4,KtxP  ..  .!      63 

3.., PxP;    4*KtxP,  B-B4,  and P.B3  ..  ..  54.55 

Sections.      See Summary of Sections Sicilian Defence :  1  P-K4,  P.QB4  ;    2  Kt.QB3  . .  . .  254-256 

2  Kt-KB3,  P-KB4,  B-B4,  P-KKt3,  P-QKt3.  and P.QKt4   . »  . .     257 

Sorensen's Gambit.     See King's Gambit.   ..  ..  ..(Col.  10)..     162 

Spanish Game.     See Ruy Lopez's Knight's Game       ,,  ..  ..124 

Starbuck's Variation in the Two Knight's Defence  (13  . . ,  Q-Qs«i)  , ,      57 

INDEX. 

..      45* 
P.B4,  P.Q3  or  4,  and 

46-61 
88,  93,  97,  99,  106 

Stamma's Variatian of the Centre Gambit  (3  Q-K3)  . .  . .  . .    237 

Staunton's Opening.        Introduction 

1  P-K4,  P-K4 ;       2  Kt.KB3.  Kt.QB3 ;     3  P-B3, 
Kt-Ba Steinitz'  Defences in the Evans Gambit    . . 

Do.               do.       Ruy Lopez'  Knight's Game.  . .  (Col.  1)        126 

Variation in the French Defence  (2  P-K5)  . .  . .     253 

Variation in the Three Knights'  Game  (3  . . ,  P-KKt3)  . .  . .      44 

Variations in Petrofi's Counter Attack                  . .  . .  . .      34 

Steinitz'  Gambit.       Introduction             . .               . .  . .  . .    219 

1P.-K4,P.K4;    2Kt-QB3,Kt-QB3;    3P.B4,PxP;    4  P.Q4,  Q.B5ch ; 

5.K.K2,  P.Q4                ..                ..                ..  ..  232-234 

5  ..,P.Q3,  P.KKt4,  andP-QKt3..               *.  ..  234-236 

Stonewall Opening.    (Irregular)                 ...               . .  , .  . .     270 

S)wedish^  or Scandinavian Gambit.    See Danish Gambit  ..  236-241 

Summary of Sections.    The King's Knight's Opening  . .  . .      21 

Do.       Bishop's Opening  . .  *.    147 

Do.       Gambits              ..  ••  .^    159 

Miscellaneous Gambits         ..  .4  •«.    221 

The Close Game                    «.  ..  ..247 

Games at Odds    .,               .♦  .#  ..    271 

Tarrasch's Trap in the Ruy Lopez             . .               . ,  *.  (note  6)       "^130 

Tennison Gambit :  1  Kt-KB3,  P-Q4  ;    2  P.K4            ..  ..  .,     26d Thorold's Attack in the Allgaier Gambit  (7  P-Q4)       . .  -« .  . .    195 

,»        Attack in the King's Gambit Declined      -..  ..(note  10)       21S Three Knights'  Games.        Introduction    . .                . .  ...  . .      42- 

1  P.K4,  P-K4  ;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-KB3  ;  or  2  . . ,  Kt.QB3  * »  43-44 

Three Pawns'  Gambit.    See Cunningham Gambit     ...  . .  •. .     203 

Two Bishops'  Opening.    See Classical Defences          . .  . .  .  •    160 

Two Knights'  Defence.        Introduction     . .                . .  . .  , .      66 

1P.K4,P.K4;    2  Kt-KB3,  Kt-QB3 ;    3B.B4,  Kt-B3;  4  Kt-Kt5  67-69 

4  P-Q4,  0-0,  P.Q3,  and Kt-BS        71-72 

Unusual and Irregular Openings                . .               . .  . .  268-270 

Van't Kruys Opening  (1  P.K3)                    ..                ,.  ..  ..266 

Vienna Opening.        Introduction              . .                . .  . .  . .     222 

1  P-K4,  P-K4  ;  2  Kt-QB3,  B-B4,  and Kt.KB3      . .  . .  223-226 

2  . . ,  Kt-QB3  ;    3  P-KKt3,  B.B4,  P.Q4,  &c. . .  227 

3P-B4  (Pierce,  Hamppe,  Steinitz,  (fcc.)  228-235 

Waller's Attack in the Evans Gambit  (8  Q-Kt3)         . .  . .  . .     104 

Wing Gambit in the King's Bishop's Opening  (3  P.QKt4)  ..  ,.152 

Zukertorfs Opening  (1  Kt-KB3)                 ..                ..  ....  ..     270 

Variations.inPhilidor's Defence (4  Kt-B3)            .»  ..  ..39 

Do.        the Compromised Defence v.  . .  115-116 

Do.              King's Bishop's Gambit           ..  ..  ..209 

Do.  Salvio Gambit 

*    See also Appendix. 

RETURN TO the circulation desk of any University of California Library or to the NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY BIdg.  400,  Richmond Field Station University of California Richmond,  CA  94804-4698 

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER  7  DAYS 
2-month loans may be renewed by calling 

(415)642-6233 
1-year loans may be recharged by bringing books to NRLF Renewals and recharges may be made  4  days prior to due date DUE AS STAMPED BELOW SEP1519BB jm  2  « 1989 

0^/^10-1929 

YC  27220